Texas bartender Ray and housewife Abby drive through a downpour at night, discussing Abby's bad marriage to Ray's boss, Julian Marty. They have sex at a motel. Loren Visser, a private detective, takes photos of the tryst and delivers them to Marty. When a caller informs the couple they are being watched, Abby grabs some belongings, including a revolver Marty gave her. Ray goes to the bar to demand his back pay from Marty, who tells Ray that Abby will betray him, as she did Marty, and when confronted will say, "I haven't done anything funny."
After a botched attempt to kidnap Abby, Marty offers Visser $10,000 to kill her and Ray. Visser tells Marty to go fishing and he will call him when the job is done. Visser breaks into Ray's home and steals Abby's gun. He shows Marty photos of the murdered couple, one of which Marty secrets in his safe while retrieving the $10,000. Visser double crosses Marty and shoots him with Abby's gun. He drops the gun and grabs the money but forgets his cigarette lighter as he leaves.
It is revealed that Visser doctored the photos to appear that Abby and Ray had been shot. Ray discovers Marty's body, accidentally discharging Abby's gun when he steps on it. Convinced that Abby shot Marty, Ray cleans the crime scene, puts the gun in Marty's pocket and the body in his car. Marty is still alive, albeit barely; he attempts to crawl away, laboriously, as Ray is preparing to bury him, but Ray recovers him. Ray begins to bury Marty in a shallow grave when Marty pulls the gun out of his pocket, aims, and pulls the trigger three times, falling on an empty chamber each time. Marty screams as Ray takes the gun and finishes burying him alive.
The next morning, Ray tries to explain to Abby that he "cleaned it all up." Abby says, "I haven't done anything funny," which leads to an argument. Visser telephones but does not speak when Abby picks up. Unaware of Marty's death and Ray's "cleanup", Abby assumes and tells Ray that it was Marty. Ray places her gun on a table as he leaves. Meurice, another bartender, tells Ray about a phone message Marty left regarding money stolen from the safe-Marty's cover for the $10,000 he paid Visser.
While burning the doctored photos, Visser realizes that Marty kept one, and that he left his lighter. His attempt to break into the safe is thwarted by Abby, who thinks Ray damaged the safe and realizes Marty might be dead. She has a nightmare of Marty warning her that Ray will kill her as well. She confronts Ray, who tells her Marty was still alive when he buried him.
After opening the safe and discovering the doctored photo, Ray goes to Abby's apartment to warn her. Visser kills Ray with a rifle shot from a rooftop across the street. Smashing the light bulb to darken the room, Abby hides in the bathroom.
Visser enters the apartment and searches for the lighter, finding that Abby has climbed out of the window into the next apartment. As Visser attempts to crawl through in pursuit, Abby stabs his hand with Ray's knife, pinning the hand to the sill of the window he tried to reach while his body remains trapped in the other room. As Abby backs away, Visser empties his gun into the wall partitioning the two in rooms, then punches through it to remove the knife. Returning to her apartment, Abby picks up her gun and shoots Visser through the bathroom door. She says, "I'm not afraid of you, Marty," and Visser, lying wounded, laughs and responds, "Well, ma'am, if I see him, I'll sure give him the message."