Charles Oakley spots two detectives outside his Newark, New Jersey hotel room and gives them the slip. He telegraphs his sister Emma Newton in Santa Rosa, California to let her know he will visit. His niece Charlotte "Charlie" Newton is bored with her family's routine and visits the telegraph office to invite Uncle Charlie to visit. While there she learns he has already sent a telegram announcing his visit.
Uncle Charlie arrives bearing extravagant gifts for everyone: a watch for his brother-in-law, a fur for his sister, and an emerald ring for his niece. Young Charlie notices the ring is engraved with someone else's initials.
Two men appear at the Newton home pretending to survey a typical American family. They go to great lengths to take Uncle Charlie's picture. Young Charlie guesses they are undercover detectives. They explain that her uncle is one of two suspects in a nationwide manhunt. Charlie refuses to believe it at first, but she learns that the initials engraved inside her emerald ring match one of the victims of the Merry Widow Murderer. She eyes her uncle with growing suspicion and dread.
During dinner one night, Uncle Charlie rants about rich widows, describing them as "fat, wheezing animals." Horrified, young Charlie runs out of the house. Uncle Charlie follows her and takes her to a seedy bar. He admits he is one of the two murder suspects and begs her for help. She reluctantly agrees not to say anything since she wants to avoid a disgrace that would destroy her mother, who adores her younger brother.
The two detectives confide in young Charlie that the picture they took of her uncle has been sent east for identification by a witness. News breaks that the other Merry Widow suspect was killed while being chased by police. Everyone assumes he was the actual murderer. Uncle Charlie is delighted to be cleared, but young Charlie still suspects him. Later she falls down the back porch stairs, which she discovers were deliberately sabotaged.
Uncle Charlie reveals he wants to settle down in Santa Rosa. Young Charlie is appalled, but he reminds her there is no proof that he is a killer since he has taken back the emerald ring with the initials. Young Charlie says she will kill him if he stays. Later that night, Uncle Charlie leaves the car idling in the garage and traps Young Charlie inside with the car belching exhaust fumes. A neighbor hears her struggling and alerts the Newtons. Uncle Charlie makes a show of saving her.
Young Charlie finds the emerald ring in her uncle's room and puts it on. When Uncle Charlie sees it on her finger, he abruptly announces he is leaving for San Francisco-coincidentally on the same train as Mrs. Porter, a rich widow. At the station, Uncle Charlie invites his niece on board to see his compartment. When the train starts to move, he stops her from leaving and explains he has to kill her because she knows too much. He tries to throw young Charlie from a train door, but she manages to change positions with him. Uncle Charlie then tells her to wait for the train to speed up and she pushes him into the path of an oncoming train, killing him.
At his funeral, Uncle Charlie is honored by the townspeople, who are unaware of his crimes. Young Charlie laments to one of the detectives that she knows he was the Merry Widow Murderer, but they resolve to keep Uncle Charlie's crimes a secret.