In 1932, Sir William McCordle, his wife Lady Sylvia, and their daughter Isobel host a shooting party at their country estate, Gosford Park. Among the guests are Sylvia's sisters Louisa and Lavinia and their husbands Lord Stockbridge and Commander Anthony Meredith; her aunt Constance, Countess of Trentham; the Hon. Freddie and Mabel Nesbitt; actor Ivor Novello and American film producer Morris Weissman. Lord Rupert Standish and Jeremy Blond arrive later.
Mrs Wilson, the housekeeper, assigns the visiting servants to their rooms and overhears Robert Parks, Lord Stockbridge's valet, mention being raised in an orphanage. Head housemaid Elsie tutors Lady Trentham's inexperienced maid, Mary MacEachran.
Following dinner, a silver carving knife is missing. Henry Denton, Weissman's valet, raises the staff's suspicions with intrusive questions and a seemingly Scottish accent (which Mary, Scottish herself, sees through). Later that evening, Henry has a tryst with Lady Sylvia. Isobel asks Elsie to speak to Sir William about hiring Freddie, who is blackmailing Isobel over their affair and her aborted pregnancy. Freddie mistreats Mabel, whom he married for her money but overestimated her wealth. Lady Trentham confides to Mary that Sylvia and Louisa cut cards to decide which of them would marry Sir William.
When the men go shooting, a stray shot grazes Sir William's ear. The ladies join them for lunch, and Sir William withdraws from Anthony's business scheme, leaving him financially ruined. Lady Sylvia informs her aunt Constance that Sir William may halt her allowance.
During dinner, Lady Sylvia berates Sir William and Elsie comes to his defence, exposing their affair; she is summarily dismissed. After dinner, Sir William retires alone to his study for the rest of the evening, where Mrs Wilson brings him coffee. The guests gather in the drawing room as Novello plays the piano and sings, with the servants listening outside; Freddie, Anthony, Robert, and footman George each slip away. A man, seen only by his trousers, enters the library with the missing carving knife and, finding Sir William seemingly asleep in his chair, stabs him in the chest.
After the body is discovered, bumbling Inspector Thompson and competent Constable Dexter arrive to investigate. They discover Sir William was poisoned before being stabbed. Mrs Croft, the head cook, tells her staff about Sir William's history of seducing his female factory workers; those who became pregnant were forced to give their babies up for adoption or lose their jobs. Isobel gives Freddie a cheque, which he angrily tears up when confronted by Mabel. Deferential to the upper class, Inspector Thompson releases the guests with cursory interviews and does not interview most of the staff, who he believes would not have any motive for murder.
Mary deduces that Parks is the killer; when she confronts Parks, he reveals he is the illegitimate son of Sir William and that his dead mother was one of Sir William's factory workers. Since Parks did not poison Sir William, he must already have been dead when Parks stabbed him. Parks tells Mary that he is glad that Sir William is dead and does not care who is responsible.
As guests and their servants depart, Freddie, his blackmail of Isobel having failed, pursues a partnership with Anthony, whose business venture has been saved by Sir William's death. Isobel overhears Rupert's conversation with Blond abruptly ending his courtship upon learning of the limits of Isobel's inheritance.
Lady Trentham and Lady Sylvia discuss Mrs Croft and Mrs Wilson's long-standing feud, and Lady Sylvia reveals that Mrs Wilson's surname used to be Parks, Parker or Parkinson. Overhearing, Mary deduces that Mrs Wilson killed to protect her son, Parks. Mary speaks to Mrs Wilson, who admits that she and Mrs Croft are sisters and both had children by Sir William while working at his factory. Mrs Croft kept her baby and lost her job, though the child died in infancy, while Mrs Wilson gave up her son, naively believing Sir William would find an adoptive family. Realizing Parks was her son who intended to kill his father, she poisoned Sir William to prevent his crime; consequently, his only transgression was stabbing a dead body.
Mrs Croft comforts Mrs Wilson as Mary says goodbye to Parks and the last guests leave.