Professional photojournalist L.B. "Jeff" Jefferies, recuperating from assignment-related injuries, with his leg in a cast from his waist to his foot, uses a wheelchair in his Greenwich Village apartment. His mid-floor rear window looks out onto a courtyard with small garden plots, surrounded on four sides by apartments in adjoining buildings. Jeff is regularly visited by Stella, a middle-aged nurse, and his girlfriend, Lisa Fremont, a socialite who works in fashion.
During a heat wave, Jeff watches his neighbors through open windows, including a professional dancer coined "Miss Torso"; a songwriter with writer's block; a spinster who pantomimes dates with pretend suitors, "Miss Lonely-Hearts"; and traveling costume jewelry salesman Lars Thorwald, who is henpecked by his bedridden wife. One night, Jeff observes Thorwald making repeated excursions carrying his sample case. After Jeff has fallen asleep, Thorwald leaves his apartment along with a woman.
The next morning, Jeff notices that the Thorwalds' shades are drawn, Thorwald's wife seems to be gone, and Jeff sees Thorwald cleaning a knife and a handsaw. Movers haul away a large trunk. After surveilling with binoculars and a camera, Jeff grows suspicious of Thorwald's activities. Convinced that Thorwald has murdered his wife, he first tells Stella and then Lisa, who doubts him until they notice that Thorwald's wife is no longer in bed and the mattress is rolled up.
Jeff calls his friend, detective Tom Doyle, to request that he investigate Thorwald. Whilst sceptical, Doyle investigates, finds nothing suspicious, and posits that the Thorwalds were having marital problems, and Thorwald had sent his wife on a vacation upstate. Jeff and Lisa are temporarily mollified by this explanation. Later that night, however, a neighbor's dog is found dead in the courtyard; the previous day, Thorwald had chased the dog away from digging his garden flowerbed. The dog's alarmed owner cries out, drawing the attention of everyone except Thorwald, who sits furtively in his dark apartment, smoking. Now convinced his theory is true, Jeff looks at slides taken two weeks earlier and notices that Thorwald has replanted flowers in his garden, possibly to bury a body part.
The following night, Jeff telephones Thorwald to lure him away from his apartment, enabling Lisa and Stella to investigate Thorwald's flowerbed. Finding nothing, Lisa decides to climb into Thorwald's open window to search his apartment. Stella hurries back to Jeff.
While Lisa is searching, Jeff and Stella are distracted when they see Miss Lonely-Hearts contemplating an overdose. Thorwald returns unexpectedly and catches Lisa, who attempts to talk her way out of trouble. Unconvinced, Thorwald attacks her, causing Lisa to cry out. Jeff and Stella call the police. He reports that a man is assaulting a woman at Thorwald's apartment. The police arrive to intervene as Lisa and Thorwald scuffle. During police questioning, Lisa signals to Jeff that she is wearing Mrs. Thorwald's wedding ring. Seeing this, Thorwald realizes Jeff is surveilling his apartment. Rather than expose Thorwald, Lisa allows herself to be arrested for breaking and entering so she can get to safety. Coincidentally, the songwriter had finished his song "Lisa," playing it loudly and, enthralled by the tune, Miss Lonely-Hearts abandons her suicide attempt.
Jeff phones Doyle and leaves an urgent message while Stella leaves to bail Lisa out of jail. Locating Jeff's apartment, Thorwald attacks him; Jeff's only defense in a darkened apartment is snapping his camera flash bulbs in Thorwald's eyes. While they grapple, Doyle and other officers arrive, followed by Lisa and Stella. Police apprehend Thorwald just as he drops Jeff out of his window. Thorwald confesses his wife's murder to the police.
Days later, the heat wave has broken, and life in the apartment complex has returned to normal. Miss Lonely-Hearts is seen socializing with the songwriter in his studio apartment while he plays music, Thorwald's neighbors get a new puppy, Miss Torso's homely-looking boyfriend Stanley returns from army deployment, and the newlyweds' honeymoon period has ended. Having broken his other leg in the fall, Jeff still uses a wheelchair, now with both legs in casts.