Bee, a young working-class woman from Eastern Europe, travels with her wealthy girlfriend Sophie to a "hurricane party" at a mansion owned by the family of David, Sophie's best friend. Other guests include David's girlfriend and so-called actress Emma, the podcaster Alice, her much-older new boyfriend Greg, and the enigmatic Jordan. Max, another guest, left after a fight with David the night before Sophie and Bee arrived.
After drinking, using drugs, and dancing, the group decides to play "Bodies Bodies Bodies," a murder in the dark-style game. David punches Greg during a slapping game and later winds him up after he is the corpse in the murder game, so Greg goes to bed. David then argues with Emma and leaves. As the storm worsens, the power goes out and the girls scramble to find a power source. Minutes later, Bee finds David outside with his throat slashed, a blood-stained kukri nearby. Panicked and without cell reception, the group tries to go for help in Sophie's car but finds its battery dead due to Bee accidentally leaving its lights on.
The group discovers Greg has a go bag with a knife and a map of the area and becomes suspicious of him. They fearfully confront Greg, who is hostile in return, at first believing it to be part of the game. After a struggle, Bee bludgeons him to death with a kettlebell out of fear.
The group doubts that Greg was the killer and Emma theorizes that Max, who had confessed feelings for her the night before, returned to kill David. Sophie, a sober addict, relapses and verbally attacks Emma. After apologizing, Emma kisses her, to Sophie's confusion, before accepting drugs. Alice later finds Emma dead from a head wound at the bottom of the stairs and believes the group is being killed one by one. Jordan and Alice cast suspicion on Bee, revealing that no one with her name is on record as having graduated from her college; they throw Bee out into the hurricane.
Returning to Sophie's car, Bee finds underwear that matches Jordan's bra in the backseat. She sees Jordan holding David's father's gun through a window, then crawls back inside through a pet door. Bee confronts the group, revealing that she dropped out of college to take care of her mother, who has borderline personality disorder. A vicious argument ensues, in which it is revealed that Jordan was the "killer" in the Bodies Bodies Bodies game, and she reveals resentment for Sophie due to her drug addiction and using David to regain access to her trust fund. She claims Sophie cheated on Bee with her, which Sophie denies. Sophie expresses why she would not date Jordan, that she avoids her friends because their behavior challenges her sobriety, and reveals that Jordan only "hate-listens" to Alice's podcast. After Alice responds by insulting Jordan's insecurities, Jordan shoots Alice in the leg. They struggle for the gun and Alice is fatally shot in the throat. As Sophie and Jordan fight, Bee pushes Jordan over the staircase banister. With her dying breath, Jordan tells Bee to check Sophie's text messages and shoots in their direction multiple times. The distrustful Bee hides from Sophie.
When morning comes and the storm has blown over, Sophie tearfully confesses to Bee that she relapsed and witnessed Emma tripping and falling down the stairs to her death. However, Bee holds her at gunpoint, demanding to see her texts. Sophie tosses her phone away and they struggle, inadvertently picking up David's phone in the process, which shows that David accidentally slashed his own throat while trying to use the kukri to open a champagne bottle, which Greg had done earlier, for a TikTok video-revealing there was no real murderer after all. As Bee and Sophie realize the bloodshed was all for nothing, a confused Max returns to the mansion, and the power returns. When Max asks what happened, Bee only says that she now has service on her phone.