Dr. Kay Scarpetta, chief medical examiner for the Commonwealth of Virginia, is called to the most recent crime scene of a suspected serial killer targeting couples in Richmond. Very few clues are left for investigators, as the victims' bodies have not been located. Scarpetta examines the Jeep belonging to Deborah Harvey, the female victim, finding no evidence of a struggle. Deborah's mother, Pat Harvey, is the National Drug Policy Director and cracking down on organized drug crimes, leading investigators to suspect that her and her boyfriend's disappearances are political in nature.
Stumped, Scarpetta meets with FBI profiler Benton Wesley and Lieutenant Pete Marino, who agree to an open line of communication. She soon reunites with crime reporter Abby Turnbull, who shares her suspicions that something about the killings is being covered up by authorities, and that she is being stalked. Scarpetta initially writes her off until the bodies of Deborah and her boyfriend are found, discovering planted evidence at the scene. Upon questioning Wesley, she learns that the CIA and FBI fear that the killer is a rogue operative stationed at a nearby training camp.
Investigating on her own, Scarpetta discovers a years old case involving a murdered dog that took place within the vicinity of the recent murders and involved the same type of Hydra-Shok ammunition recovered at the dump site. Later, she also learns of two murders from the same timeframe fitting the pattern of the present-day killings where DNA evidence was recovered. While retracing the final night of the two victims' lives, she encounters a suspicious man asking for directions and writes down his license plate number. Upon running the plate number through the police database, she finds that the plate number does not match the make and model of the car she saw. Eventually, she ascertains that the man she saw lifted the plate from another car in long term parking at the local airport before replacing it the next day. Returning to where she first encountered him, she learns he's a local shop owner.
Finding out the man is named Steven Spurrier, she informs Marino and Wesley of his identity and the possible link to the killings. He is eventually arrested after being observed stealing another license plate, giving the police probable cause to search his home and take DNA samples. They are unable to find any definitive link to the killings besides circumstantial evidence and so are forced to release him. Worse still, the DNA evidence from the old crime scene does not match Spurrier. Eventually, Turnbull decides to do an interview with Spurrier in order to vindicate her belief in having been watched by authorities. Following her, Scarpetta and Marino enter Spurrier's apartment and find Turnbull and Spurrier dead at the hands of a vengeful Pat Harvey. At Abby's funeral, Scarpetta speaks with Wesley and reveals that Spurrier's DNA actually did match the DNA found, and that the reason their tests did not conclude such is because he had developed aplastic anemia years earlier and required a bone marrow transplant from his brother, changing the DNA of his blood cells. Afterwards, Scarpetta leaves the cemetery and drives home.