Rachel Watson is a 33-year-old woman with behavioural issues related to her alcoholism. Her drinking has led to the end of her marriage to Tom, who left her for another woman. It has also caused her to lose her job; she frequently binges and has blackouts. Tom has since re-married to Anna Boyd and has a daughter with her, Evie - a situation that fuels Rachel's self-destructive tendencies. Though currently unemployed, Rachel still follows her old routine of taking the train to and from London every day, one at 8:04 in the morning and the other at 5:56 in the evening. This routine is one of her few excuses to leave her apartment, and prevents her roommate, Cathy, from discovering that she is unemployed. The train passes Rachel's old home on Blenheim Road, where Tom, Anna, and Evie now live. From the train, Rachel also watches a couple who live a few houses away from Tom. She idealizes their life (christening them "Jason" and "Jess"), and fantasizes about being friends with them. However, "Jess", whose real name is Megan Hipwell, has a troubled past and a far from perfect life. She has had several lovers, including her therapist, Dr. Kamal Abdic.
One day, from the train, Rachel witnesses Megan passionately embracing another man. The next day, after heavy drinking, Rachel awakens to find herself bloody and injured, with no memories of the night before. She learns that Megan is missing, and is questioned by the police after Anna reports having seen her drunkenly staggering around the night of Megan's disappearance. Rachel tells the police she thinks Megan was having an affair. She then contacts Megan's husband, Scott ("Jason"), leading him to believe that she and Megan were friends. Rachel learns that the man she saw kissing Megan was Kamal.
Rachel contacts Kamal, lying about her identity to get close to him and learn more about him. She makes a therapy appointment with him to see if he can help her recall the events that happened during her blackout that night. Rachel begins to gain insight into her life by speaking with him, inadvertently benefiting from the therapy. Her connections to Scott and Kamal, though built on lies, make her feel more important. She manages to not drink for days at a time, but always relapses. Meanwhile, she continues to call, visit, and harass Tom. Megan's body is found; she is revealed to have been pregnant, and her unborn child was fathered by neither Scott nor Kamal. As Scott discovers Rachel's lies and lashes out at her, her memories become clearer. Rachel remembers seeing Megan get into Tom's car. Anna discovers that Tom and Megan were having an affair.
Rachel begins trusting her own memories more, and realises that many of the incidents Tom said she caused while drunk never really happened. He had been gaslighting her for years, making her question her sanity. Armed with this realisation, and the suspicion that he might have killed Megan, Rachel warns Anna. When Anna confronts him, Tom confesses to murdering Megan after she threatened to reveal the affair. Anna is cowed, fearing for her daughter's safety. Tom tries to beat and intimidate Rachel into keeping silent, but she defies him and fights back. Rachel stabs Tom with a corkscrew; Anna helps Rachel make sure that he dies from the wound. When the police arrive, Rachel and Anna support each other by corroborating their stories to explain their actions as self-defence. After this, Rachel decides to quit drinking and move on with her life.