The body of a young woman is found on the hearth rug in the library at Gossington Hall, home of Colonel Arthur and Dolly Bantry. The woman has heavy makeup, platinum-blonde hair, and wears a silver-spangled dress. Nobody knows who she is. The colonel contacts the police, and Dolly calls her friend Miss Jane Marple.
Colonel Melchett and Inspector Slack investigate. Hearing of a blond woman in the vicinity, Melchett visits the nearby cottage of Basil Blake, who works in the film industry. However, Blake's platinum-blonde girlfriend, Dinah Lee, is very much alive. An autopsy reveals that the young woman died between 10 pm and 12 midnight on the previous evening; she had been drugged and then strangled. Miss Marple thinks that the appearance of the girl is not quite right, noticing her bitten fingernails.
One of the elderly guests at the Majestic Hotel in Danemouth, Conway Jefferson, has reported a missing person: Ruby Keene, an 18-year-old professional dancer. Jefferson tells police he planned to adopt Ruby, and has revised his will in her favour. She was last seen at around 11 pm dancing with another guest, George Bartlett, but she did not appear for her scheduled dance demonstration at midnight. Josie Turner, Ruby's cousin, also employed at the hotel, confirms that the body is indeed Ruby's.
Dolly and Miss Marple move to the Majestic to investigate. Jefferson calls in an old friend, Sir Henry Clithering, a former senior police officer. Sir Henry and Miss Marple agree to collaborate.
Some eight years earlier, Jefferson's wife, son, and daughter had all been killed in an aeroplane crash, and he now lives with his son-in-law, Mark, and daughter-in-law, Adelaide, who expect to inherit when the old man dies. The three were playing bridge that evening with Josie.
George Bartlett's burned-out car is found with a charred corpse inside. From one shoe and a button, the body is identified as that of 16-year-old Girl Guide Pamela Reeves who had been reported missing the previous night. On questioning Pamela's friends, Miss Marple learns that Pamela had been lured away by a 'film producer' with an offer of a screen test. Other clues point to Blake: his hearth rug is found dumped, and Jefferson's valet reports having seen a snapshot of Blake fall out of Ruby's handbag.
Blake confesses to Miss Marple that after returning home around midnight, rather drunk after a party, he had found the corpse on his hearth rug. Not liking Colonel Bantry very much, he had moved the body to Gossington Hall and left it there.
Miss Marple asks for a search at Somerset House, and a record is found of a marriage between Mark and Josie. At Miss Marple's suggestion, Jefferson tells Mark and Adelaide that he intends to change his will the next day, leaving his money to a hostel in London. At 3 am, an intruder enters Jefferson's bedroom, and Josie is caught in the act with a syringe filled with digitalin.
Miss Marple explains her thinking. The body in the library had been Pamela Reeves, made up to look like Ruby, with her bitten fingernails giving her away; Ruby was the charred body in the car. Thus, the time-related alibis at the hotel were useless. Miss Marple had never believed Josie's identification of the library corpse.
Upon learning that Jefferson planned to adopt Ruby, Mark and Josie had planned a double murder. Mark had lured Pamela to the hotel for a fictitious screen test; Josie dressed her, dyed her hair, made her up to resemble Ruby, then drugged her. During a break in the bridge game, Mark took the drugged Pamela to Blake's home, where he strangled her. Just before midnight, when Ruby went up to change for the exhibition dance, Josie followed and killed her. She then took Bartlett's car and drove Ruby, dressed in Pamela's clothes, to a quarry and destroyed the evidence by setting the car alight.
Adelaide agrees to marry her long-time suitor, Hugo, which pleases Jefferson. He makes a new will settling a cash sum on her, leaving the rest to her son Peter.