Lew Archer is hired by attorney Gordon Sable on behalf of Maria Galton, Santa Teresa resident and widow of an oil millionaire. He must try and locate her son Anthony, who had left home twenty years before with his sluttish, pregnant wife. Sable is himself preoccupied with his much younger, mentally unstable wife Alice and has hired as manservant the belligerent Peter Culligan.
Just as Archer is preparing to follow up a clue, Culligan is mortally stabbed and the armed assailant steals Archer's car after crashing his own. Archer flies instead to San Francisco and eventually discovers that the missing Anthony had settled in a former rum-running area called Luna Bay. After the cottage where he had lived under the name of John Brown was demolished during redevelopment, a headless body was discovered buried beneath it. With the help of Anthony's former doctor and the Luna Bay sheriff, Archer establishes the body's identity as that of the man he is seeking.
Before leaving, Archer learns that his stolen car has been located, and that the crashed car had belonged to San Francisco resident Roy Lemberg. Interviewing Lemberg's drunken wife, Archer learns that Roy and his violent brother Tommy had associated with a Reno mobster called Schwartz. Archer then visits Redwood City, where Culligan's former wife has remarried and is desperately hiding her past. She had once worked for 'John Brown' in Luna City and, though she was unaware of his murder, she was able to throw suspicion on Culligan and his fellow gang member, 'Shoulders' Nelson.
Sable now drives up to San Francisco to join Archer and they hear that a young man calling himself John Brown has recently arrived from the Detroit area in search of news of his lost father. After Sable and Archer interview him, John leaves for Santa Teresa with Sable while Archer stays behind to tie up loose threads. Finding that Roy Lemberg has left for Reno, he flies there but is waylaid and badly beaten by Schwartz's thugs.
Back in Santa Theresa after hospitalisation, Archer finds that John Brown has been accepted by Mrs Galton as her grandson, although some still suspect him of being an imposter. One who does is Dr Howell, the Galtons' doctor, whose daughter Sheila has fallen in love with the young man. John claimed to have been dumped by his mother in an Ohio orphanage, since destroyed by fire; from there he went to Ann Arbor and had been provided with an education by a benefactor who had since died. Another reason for Howell's distrust is that John's pronunciation and spelling is Canadian rather than American. He hires Archer to investigate further.
In Ann Arbor, Archer locates John's former girlfriend, who confides that his name was Theodore Fredericks and that he had been raised in the poor section of the Canadian town of Pitt, Ontario. John's mother there reveals that he had always been an ambitious fantasist and had run away to the United States six years before with Peter Culligan, who had been a boarder in the family home. Archer also discovers that the Lemberg brothers are now using the house as a hide-out, but Tommy claims that he did not kill Culligan; he had only been sent to intimidate Alice Sable, who had run up gambling debts in Schwartz's casino. Archer believes him and persuades Tommy to take the chance of giving himself up.
Dr Howell and Archer now confront Sable, who has had his wife discharged from the nursing home where she was confined. Sable had been trying to pin Culligan's murder on her when it was actually he who had stabbed Culligan. Both men were part of a plot to impose John on Mrs Galton and syphon off some of his inheritance. But meanwhile, John has escaped with Sheila Howell to Canada, where Archer follows them. In the end, it is John who has solved the mystery. Anthony Galton was John's father after all. Mrs Fredericks was Anthony's young pregnant bride, and she agreed to marry Shoulders Nelson (Fredericks) after he murdered Anthony Galton, to keep herself and her son alive. She is free to tell the truth now that Fredericks has hanged himself rather than face imprisonment.