A notice appears in Chipping Cleghorn's local newspaper announcing a forthcoming murder, and giving the place and time. Intrigued, curious villagers start to arrive at Letitia Blacklock's home, Little Paddocks, including neighbours Miss Hinchcliffe and her friend Amy Murgatroyd. Also present are Patrick and his sister Julia Simmons, guests at the house, the young widow Phillipa Haymes, and Edmund Swettenham, another neighbour who is in love with Phillipa.
At 6.30 exactly, the lights go out in the parlour, and a masked man waving a blindingly-bright torch appears in the doorway and shouts "Stick 'em up hard!" Shots are fired, and when the lights are restored Miss Blacklock is bleeding from the ear and the man lies dead. Miss Blacklock's companion, Bunny, recognises him as Rudi Scherz, a Swiss worker at a local hotel.
Miss Marple joins Inspector Craddock in investigating. Scherz's girlfriend says that Scherz had been paid by an unknown person to stage a fake hold-up. He had no gun. The discovery of oil on the hinges of a normally-locked second parlour door suggests that one of the guests might have slipped out and come round behind Scherz to shoot.
The individuals with an obvious motive for wanting to kill Miss Blacklock are twins, Pip and Emma, whose uncle was Miss Blacklock's wealthy former employer Randall Goedler. On his death, Goedler's wealth passed to his wife Belle, and on her death (expected to happen soon), Miss Blacklock will inherit. However if she dies before Belle, the estate will pass to the twins. Craddock travels to Scotland and learns from Belle that nobody has heard from Emma and Pip for many years. Belle chats about Letitia's sister Charlotte, who had had a goitre. Letitia had given up her job with Goedler to take her sister to Switzerland for surgery; Charlotte had died there suddenly, leaving Letitia to return to England alone.
Miss Marple takes tea with Bunny. She is just telling Miss Marple that a pair of decorative lamps in the house had been switched when Miss Blacklock arrives and interrupts their tête-à-tête. The next morning, Bunny is found dead, poisoned. Craddock passes to Miss Marple copies of old letters from Letitia to Charlotte. She compares them to a modern letter, and finds them interesting. On hearing from the real Julia Simmons, Miss Blacklock confronts her house guest 'Julia', who admits that she is in fact Emma. However, she denies murder.
Talking with Miss Hinchcliffe, Amy Murgatroyd realises that, from her position behind the door, she was the only person not blinded by the torch. She is struggling to recall who she could see, when her friend is called away. As Miss Hinchcliffe drives off, Amy shouts after her "She wasn't THERE!" Shortly after her friend leaves, Amy is strangled.
Craddock and Miss Marple gather everyone at Little Paddocks. Having previously made private arrangements with Edmund and with Mitzi the cook to act parts, they elicit a confession from Phillipa that she is really Pip. After Mitzi claims that she had actually seen Miss Blacklock shoot Scherz, Miss Blacklock leaves the room. Screams are heard, and Miss Blacklock is found attempting to drown Mitzi in the kitchen sink.
Miss Marple explains that it was actually Letitia, not Charlotte, who had died in Switzerland. Charlotte posed as Letitia and returned to England, covering the scar on her throat with strings of pearls. Rudi Scherz had recognized her, having worked at the Swiss hospital where she had her surgery.
Charlotte had shorted the frayed cord of a lamp by pouring water on it, plunging the room into darkness. She then came behind Scherz and shot him, cutting her own ear with nail scissors. She later replaced the lamp with its pair. Bunny had known both sisters from childhood, and Charlotte had taken Bunny into her confidence about the impersonation but not the murder. Fearful that Bunny might reveal the truth, Charlotte poisoned her. Amy had realised that Miss Blacklock was the one person whose face was not illuminated by Rudi Scherz's torch. Charlotte had heard Amy shout, and killed her as soon as Miss Hinchcliffe had left.
Ultimately, Pip and Emma inherit the Goedler fortune, and Edmund and Phillipa marry.