After London businessman Rex Fortescue dies after drinking his morning tea, Scotland Yard Detective Inspector Neele leads the investigation. An autopsy reveals that the cause of death was poisoning by taxine, a toxic alkaloid obtained from the yew tree, and that Fortescue had ingested it with his breakfast. A search of his clothing reveals a quantity of rye seeds in his jacket pocket.
Rex's wife, Adele, is the main suspect. Rex's son Lancelot and his wife, Pat, are travelling from Kenya to London, at the invitation of his father according to Lance; in Paris he wires that he will be home next day, and police meet him at the airport. The same day that Lance arrives at Yewtree Lodge, leaving his wife in London, Adele dies of cyanide in her tea, and a few hours later the maid, Gladys Martin, is found strangled in the yard, with a clothespeg on her nose.
Assisted by Sergeant Hay, Inspector Neele interviewes all at Rex's office and at home. The older son, Percival, tells the Inspector that his father was erratic, and was ruining the business. After the story of the three murders appears in the newspapers, Miss Marple arrives to shed light on Gladys Martin, who had originally trained as a servant at Miss Marple's home. Miss Ramsbottom, Rex's sister-in-law, invites her to stay at Yewtree Lodge.
Inspector Neele agrees to work with Miss Marple. Neele learns that the taxine was ingested in marmalade, with a new jar put out at breakfast that had been used by Rex alone; that jar was later found by police thrown into the garden. Miss Marple asks Inspector Neele if he has enquired of the suspects about blackbirds, having noted the pattern of the old children's rhyme Sing a Song of Sixpence. When he does so, he learns of dead blackbirds on Rex's desk at home, a pie whose contents were removed and replaced with dead birds and, from Lance, of a Blackbird Mine in East Africa.
The Blackbird Mine had been found by a Mr MacKenzie and was suspected of containing gold. Rex Fortescue investigated the land after investing capital in it, then left MacKenzie there to die, returning alone as owner of land that he believed was of no value. Mrs MacKenzie had subsequently blamed Rex for her husband's death, promising to teach her children to avenge their father. Both the Inspector and Miss Marple suspect that the daughter may be in the household under an assumed name, the son having died in the war. The Inspector suspects Mary Dove, the housekeeper, and tells her so; later, Jennifer Fortescue, wife of Percival, tells Miss Marple that she is the MacKenzies' daughter. Jennifer had put out the dead blackbirds near Rex to remind him of his past offence; Miss Marple realises this gives the theme to the murderer. Dove promptly blackmails Jennifer; Inspector Neele says if Dove pays the money back, he will not charge her.
Miss Marple explains to Inspector Neele who killed Rex Fortescue: Gladys, who at the direction of her boyfriend, Albert Evans, had put the poison in the marmalade believing it was a truth drug, and had put the rye into the victim's pocket. The unattractive Gladys was very easy to flatter and persuade, never questioning her boyfriend's motives. Miss Marple explains that Albert Evans is really Lance Fortescue, who wants the deed to the Blackbird Mine, knowing that uranium ore has been found there. He arranged the murder of his father to stop the loss of cash, and to leave only his brother to deal with. He quickly murdered his stepmother since, had she lived for 30 days after Fortescue's death, she rather than he would have inherited. He killed Gladys to prevent her talking, placing the clothespeg to match the line in the rhyme.
When Miss Marple returns home, a delayed letter from Gladys awaits her. She explains all she did, and begs for Miss Marple's help, saying that she does not know what to do. She encloses a photograph of her boyfriend Albert - clearly Lance Fortescue. Inspector Neele's case against the murderer will be very strong.