Poirot visits his dentist, Dr Morley, to have his teeth seen to. During the visit, Morley mentions that his secretary is away, and that her absence is a great inconvenience. As Poirot leaves the office, he encounters former actress Mabelle Sainsbury Seale as she exits a cab; he retrieves a lost shoe buckle for her. Later that day, Inspector Japp informs Poirot that Morley has been found dead of a gunshot wound to the head, the gun in his hand. Between Poirot's appointment and Morley's death, the dentist had seen three patients - Mabelle, prominent financier Alistair Blunt, and a Greek gentleman named Amberiotis. Howard Raikes, an American left-wing activist who wishes to marry Blunt's niece Jane Olivera, left the office without seeing Morley's partner Dr Reilly.
The same day, Amberiotis' body is found, dead from an overdose of anaesthetic. The police conclude Morley accidentally injected the overdose, and committed suicide upon realising his mistake, but Poirot does not accept this view. Later, Morley's secretary Gladys Nevill reveals that the telegram that decoyed her away turned out to contain a lie. Poirot remembers that Morley, who disliked Gladys' boyfriend Frank Carter, had believed Carter sent the telegram.
Mabelle disappears after speaking with the police. A month later, a badly disfigured body is found in the apartment of Mrs Sylvia Chapman, a woman who also has disappeared. Poirot notes the dullness of the buckled shoes on the body, which is wearing clothes like Mabelle's. However, dental records reveal the body to be that of Mrs Chapman.
Blunt invites Poirot to his country house, where he meets Blunt's cousin Helen and niece Jane. Later, a shot is fired at Blunt; the culprit is apparently Frank Carter, Blunt's new assistant gardener, as Raikes finds Carter holding a gun of the same make as the gun that killed Morley. Furthermore, Morley's maid Agnes Fletcher admits she saw Carter on the office's back stairs, before Morley's death. Poirot presses Carter, now held by police, for the truth. Carter admits he did go to confront Morley, and saw two men leave the office by the back stair; however, when Carter himself entered the office, Morley was already dead. Carter also claims that he found the gun in the shrubbery after hearing the shot, and never actually fired at Blunt.
Poirot confronts Blunt and accuses him of the murders. Blunt's "cousin" Helen Montressor is really his first wife, Gerda; the real Helen had died years before. Gerda and Mabelle had been in the same repertory theatre company in India when Blunt secretly married Gerda. He had not divorced Gerda before he married his now-deceased and socially appropriate second wife, Rebecca Arnholt. If his bigamy were exposed, he would be disgraced, lose the fortune he inherited from Arnholt, and be removed from his position of power. When Mabelle recognised Blunt years later, she knew nothing of his second marriage. Later, Mabelle met Amberiotis, a casual acquaintance, and mentioned encountering her old friend's husband. Amberiotis decided to blackmail Blunt by threatening to expose the bigamy.
The day of Poirot's appointment with Morley, Gerda and Blunt decoyed Morley's secretary away by the false telegram. Gerda had already invited Mabelle to an apartment she had secured under the alias of Mrs Chapman, poisoned her, and stole her identity. Gerda, as "Mabelle", then visited the dentist's waiting room, secure in her deception since Gladys was away. After Morley had taken care of Blunt's teeth, Blunt shot him, took Morley's place, and buzzed the page so he could send "Mabelle" up as the next patient. The two moved the body into a side room, and Gerda changed Mabelle's records to become those of Mrs Chapman and vice versa, to confuse the police. Gerda, as "Mabelle", left the office by the back staircase most patients usually took; Blunt, as "Morley", then saw Amberiotis (who had never met Morley or Blunt in person before), and injected his gum with the overdose. Once Amberiotis left, Blunt moved Morley's body back into the surgery, set up the "suicide" scene, and left, also via the back stair, unaware that he and Amberiotis had been seen leaving by Carter. Gerda wore new shoes when impersonating Mabelle, as she could not fit into Mabelle's larger shoes; she left Mabelle's own old shoes on the dead body, a detail that Poirot noticed. Later, Blunt had arranged a pistol in such a way that it would fire when Carter started trimming the hedge, setting him up as the scapegoat and planting the idea of a "public crime" (a politically-motivated assassination) to take attention away from the real "private" motive for the murders.
Unrepentant, Blunt makes it clear he expects Poirot to cover for him because of his political importance. Poirot refuses; though he believes Blunt's policies are better for England than those of Blunt's opponents, he cannot leave the untimely deaths of three human beings unavenged. As Gerda and Blunt are arrested, Poirot meets Raikes and Olivera and tells them to enjoy their life together, asking that they allow freedom and pity within it.