Eight people arrive on a small, isolated island off the Devon coast, each having received an unexpected invitation. They are met by the butler and housekeeper, Thomas and Ethel Rogers, who explain that their hosts, Mr and Mrs Owen, have not yet arrived. A framed copy of an old rhyme hangs in every guest's room, and on the dining room table sit ten figurines. Acting on written instructions, Mr Rogers puts on a gramophone record, which accuses all ten people present of having committed murder. The guests realise that none of them know the Owens. Anthony Marston finishes his drink and promptly dies from cyanide poisoning.
The next morning, Mrs Rogers is found dead in her bed. Suspecting their unknown host, some of the guests search the island, but find nobody else. After General MacArthur dies from a blow to the head, the guests conclude that one of the seven remaining persons must be responsible. The following day, Mr Rogers is found dead at the woodpile, having been attacked with an axe, and Emily Brent is found dead in the drawing room, having been injected with potassium cyanide. The guests realise that one figurine in the dining room is being removed after each death, and that the manner of the deaths corresponds with the wording of the rhyme.
Mr Justice Wargrave suggests that all drugs and firearms should be secured, and that everyone should submit to a search. Philip Lombard's gun cannot be found. That evening, Vera Claythorne goes up to her room and screams when she finds seaweed hanging from the ceiling. Most of the remaining guests rush upstairs; when they return they find Wargrave in his chair, wearing his judicial wig and scarlet robes. Dr Armstrong pronounces him dead from a gunshot wound to the forehead. That night, Lombard's gun is returned, William Blore sees someone leaving the house, and Armstrong mysteriously disappears.
After breakfast next morning, Vera, Lombard, and Blore go out. When Blore returns for food, he is killed by a bear-shaped marble clock that falls from Vera's window sill. Vera and Lombard find Armstrong's drowned body washed up on the beach, and each concludes the other must be responsible. Vera suggests moving Armstrong's body, and then grabs Lombard's gun and shoots him dead. Believing she is now safe, Vera returns to the house, only to find a noose and chair set up in her room. Recalling the last line of the rhyme, she hangs herself.
Scotland Yard officials arrive to find ten bodies. They discover that a sleazy agent named Isaac Morris had purchased the island and made the arrangements on behalf of an unknown buyer. While the guests were on the island, Morris had died from an overdose of barbiturates, leaving nothing to indicate the buyer's identity. From the victims' diaries, the police reconstruct the first six deaths. They deduce that neither Armstrong, Lombard, nor Vera could have been the last person alive, as objects had been moved after their deaths, and they consider Blore's death unlikely to have been suicide. All indications are that no one else was on the island during this time, leaving the police mystified.
A sealed bottle is recovered from the sea, containing a written confession by Wargrave. He reveals that all his life he had possessed both a strong sense of justice and a savage bloodlust, contradictory impulses he had satisfied by becoming a judge and sentencing criminals to death. After a terminal medical diagnosis, he decided to mete out his version of justice to individuals he considered had escaped legal punishment. He hired Morris to make the arrangements, then tricked him into overdosing. Posing as one of the invited guests, he decided to kill them in order of increasing guilt. Once it became clear that the killer was one of the group, Wargrave tricked Dr Armstrong into helping him fake his own death as part of a fictitious scheme to trap the murderer into incriminating himself. After all the others were dead, Wargrave shot himself, making sure that his true death matched his staged death recorded in the guests' diaries, so that investigators would be left with "ten dead bodies and an unsolved problem".