Victor Dean, a copywriter at the advertising agency Pym's Publicity, has recently died in a fall down the office's spiral staircase. Dean's death appears suspicious, as he apparently made no attempt to save himself as he fell; and among his belongings is found an unfinished letter to the firm's owner, Mr Pym, warning of something 'undesirable' going on in the office. Pym engages the amateur detective Lord Peter Wimsey to investigate the scandal Dean claimed to have discovered; under the assumed name of Death Bredon, Wimsey takes a job at the firm as Dean's replacement.
Various clues turn up: a catapult belonging to 'Ginger' Joe, the office boy; a carved stone scarab belonging to Dean; and £50 in banknotes found in the desk of Tallboy, one of the group managers. Meanwhile, Bredon befriends Pamela Dean, Victor's sister, so that she can get him into a cocaine-fuelled fancy-dress party hosted by Dian de Momerie, a socialite with whom Dean had been associating. Disguised as Harlequin, Bredon attracts the attention of Dian and later meets her several times, always in disguise. His presence annoys Dian's companion, Major Tod Milligan, who is supplying her with drugs.
After having a drink in a Covent Garden pub, newspaper reporter Hector Puncheon discovers that someone has slipped cocaine into his coat pocket. Chief Inspector Charles Parker, Wimsey's brother-in-law, suspects that Puncheon has stumbled on the drugs gang with which Milligan is associated, but finds no further suspicious activity there. It appears that the cocaine is being distributed from a different pub each week.
Puncheon spots a man he recognizes from the pub who is behaving suspiciously, and who almost immediately falls in front of a train and is killed. Searching the man's flat, Wimsey and Parker discover a phone book with the names of many pubs ticked off, including the one in Covent Garden. Wimsey deduces the mechanism by which the drug is circulated. One of Pym's major clients runs a newspaper advertisement every Friday, the headline for which is approved on the Tuesday before. The first letter of the headline is being used to indicate the initial letter of the pub for that week, with Tallboy covertly supplying the letter to the gang in advance.
Milligan is killed in an 'accident', and Wimsey - in his identity as Bredon - is nearly jailed for the murder of Dian de Momerie (also the gang's work). The police want to catch the ringleaders during their next weekly drug distribution. Using the phone book, all they need to find the next pub is the letter for the week, as provided by Tallboy.
Wimsey is sure that Tallboy killed Victor Dean, but he does not want to act until the gang has been rounded up. On the night of the next drug distribution, Tallboy comes to Wimsey's flat to confess to the murder of Dean, who had found out what was going on and was blackmailing Tallboy. Tallboy had targetted Dean from a skylight, using Ginger Joe's catapult and the scarab, making it look like an accidental fall on the staircase.
Tallboy proposes suicide so as to save his wife and child from the scadal of an arrest for murder, but Wimsey, seeing a gang member watching in the street below his window, suggests Tallboy leave on foot, knowing that the gang's killers are waiting for him. Meanwhile Parker has waylaid the gang on their distribution run and has arrested the mastermind of the drug ring. In the following week, Wimsey, his secret now revealed, visits Pym's to say his goodbyes to those who have sympathised with him, having while there worked out an ingenious advertising scheme that is to meet with great success.