Archer is hired by Alex Kincaid to trace his wife Dolly, after she had left him on the first day of their honeymoon in Pacific Point. The detective soon traces her to the nearby college where she has enrolled as a student. There Dolly also acts as chauffeur for Mrs Bradshaw, whose son Roy is the college Dean. On the night of Archer's arrival, Dolly discovers the murdered body of Helen Haggerty, her college counsellor, and becomes hysterical. While Alex comforts Dolly, Archer contacts Dr Godwin, her former psychiatrist. Godwin immediately arranges for her to enter a clinic where she can be isolated from the predatory Sheriff Crane, who would like to convict her for Helen's murder.
Ten years before, Dolly had been manipulated into appearing as the principal witness when her father Thomas McGee was convicted of shooting her mother. After his release from San Quentin State Prison, McGee had contacted his daughter, protesting his innocence, and the trauma of this was what had caused her to run away. Archer now sets out to look into the background of the killing and begins to suspect a link between that, the murder of Helen Haggerty and the shooting of property developer Luke Deloney in the Chicago suburb of Bridgeton twenty years before. Helen's father, Police Lieutenant Earl Hoffman, had been in charge of the investigation but had been bullied into declaring it a case of suicide. That had caused a breach with his daughter, who knew differently.
Archer returns from Bridgeton via Reno, where his contacts Arnie and Phyllis Walters help him locate Jud Foley, a suspect that he and Roy Bradshaw had seen in the grounds on the night of Helen's murder. It eventually comes out that Jud had supplied Helen with information concerning Bradshaw's financial standing. She had then blackmailed Bradshaw in return for not revealing details of his affair with McGee's murdered wife years before. Knowing that Bradshaw is also staying in Reno, Archer visits his hotel room and discovers that he has secretly married his academic colleague Laura Sutherland and is living with her there. To be able to marry, he had earlier passed a summer in Reno so as to establish residence according to Nevada law and get a divorce from a marriage he made while still a student at Bridgeton to Letitia Macready.
Back in Pacific Point, Dr Goodwin questions Dolly under pentothal and learns further details about the nights of Mrs McGee's and of Helen's murders. For a while suspicion falls on Bradshaw, then shifts to his former wife, whom no one in Pacific Point has ever seen. Archer deduces at the last moment that she must be the woman Bradshaw has been passing off as his mother and that she was responsible for murdering his other sexual partners out of jealousy. Bradshaw had made it appear as if he meant to marry Helen; now that it is apparent that Laura is his real wife, her life is endangered. Bradshaw sets out to intercept Mrs Bradshaw and is killed when her car collides with his.