Hosteen Tso, patriarch of the Tso Family, has a Listening Woman (a Navajo medicine woman) named Margaret Cigarette, brought to his hogan to learn what ceremony will best improve his health after he suspects he has a ghost sickness. Margaret is accompanied by her niece, Anna Atcitty, who is apprenticing under her and acting as an assistant as Margaret is also blind and elderly. Hosteen Tso is dismissive and vague about the questioning by Margaret Cigarette as she attempts to diagnose what specifically ails Tso, with him only admitting to finding a sand painting having been disturbed. Tso reveals that he cannot be specific because he had promised his great grandfather to keep a secret and he cannot break that promise even in his illness. Before Margaret leaves to listen to the mountain for the proper ceremony to perform, Tso asks if she know the way which a man may send a letter to his grandson who has left the Navajo reservation. She tells him she doesn't know how to send such a letter and leaves the hogan with the help of her niece. Once she finds a suitable place to ponder Tso's situation, Anna leaves her to return to the hogan. After listening to the mountain and preparing her advice, she calls for her niece to help navigate back to the hogan but gets no response and so she returns after some effort to find both Tso and Anna have been murdered by an unknown assailant.
Some months later, Lieutenant Joe Leaphorn of Navajo Reservation Police is returning from a Kinaalda ceremony with a man who escaped arrest earlier. While on the road, a car at very high speed, drives by them but slows upon seeing Leaphorn's police truck's flashing lights. Once Leaphorn is at the driver side of the car, the driver attempts to run him over with the vehicle, but Leaphorn moves away in time and is merely grazed. Leaphorn is only able to catch a glimpse of the driver, who wore gold rimmed glasses, had black hair with other Navajo features. His prisoner had also seen a huge dog in the back seat. In an attempt to capture this man, Leaphorn's prisoner manages to slip away, and Leaphorn is only able to find the abandoned vehicle off the side of the road, leaving Leaphorn to return to town empty handed and frustrated.
Leaphorn is scolded by his captain for losing his prisoner, but his captain allows him to continue working without formal punishment in exchange for Leaphorn promising to assist with an odd informal request from the Bureau of Indian Affairs. A wealthy friend of an agent in the BIA has a daughter, named Theodora Addams, who has traveled to the reservation for an unknown reason and her father wants the Navajo Police to keep an eye on without arising suspicion of the request. Leaphorn promising to agreement with an additional request of his own.
The experience with the driver with gold rim glasses, who he now refers to as "Gold Rims", has caused Leaphorn to recall a case where a group of Native American extremists, called the Buffalo Society, had robbed an armored truck and had made off with a large sum of money, with only one of the groups being captured. He wishes to follow up with this case, which leads have all seemingly tried up with nothing left but spotty rumors of sightings of a helicopter in the area which matches the description of the helicopter was used by the escaped extremists after the robbery to make their escape. His captain agrees and Leaphorn begins rerunning leads to find the connection between the robbery and his run in with Gold Rims while keeping an eye out for Theodora Addams.
After searching through the reports of sightings over the past year since the robbery, Leaphorn has a hunch that the sightings circle around the Hogan of Hosteen Tso and feels that the murders of Hosteen Tso and Anna Atcitty may be related to the Buffalo Society somehow.
Leaphorn makes his way to an out of the way trading post and talks with Shorty McGinnis, the elderly white owner of the trading post who is keen to the happenings in the area, which includes the area of Tso's Hogan. Shorty reveals that Hosteen Tso had inquired about writing a letter to his grandson but since he didn't know the address to reach his grandson, Shorty was unable to send the letter. Shorty refuses to reveal the contents of the letter to Leaphorn.
While at the trading post, Leaphorn meets Theodora Adams, who is seeking a ride to the hogan of Hosteen Tso. After initially refusing to assist Theodora due to his charge not to help her go further out into the reservation, she sneaks into his vehicle while Leaphorn departs to find Margaret Cigarette to follow up on some information missing from her interview about the murders. Leaphorn agrees to drive Theodora to the Tso hogan after she agrees to explain the purpose for her journey.
Before arriving at the Tso hogan, Leaphorn uses binoculars to see if the hogan is occupied and observes a man that reminds Leaphorn vaguely of Gold Rims saying Catholic mass alone in the hogan. When Leaphorn questions Theodora about this, she reveals the man to be Benjamin Tso, grandson of Hosteen Tso who had been raised outside the reservation and had become a Catholic Priest. Despite Benjamin's Oath of Celibacy, Theodora had become infatuated with Benjamin and Benjamin, feeling a great temptation to break his oath with her, had made an escape to the home of his grandfather in the hopes of saving his soul. However, Theodora had followed him and had now found him. Leaphorn questions Benjamin about his purpose at the hogan and Benjamin reveals he had received a letter from his grandfather requesting that he return to reservation to help deal with his affairs before he died. Leaphorn memorizes the contents of the letter which Benjamin let's him read and Leaphorn leaves, feeling a tinge guilty for bringing Theodora to Benjamin.
Leaphorn makes his way to the Kinaalda again to talk with Margaret Cigarette, whom is also a relative of the escaped prisoner Leaphorn had arrested but then lost. After questioning her further about the murders and participating in the ceremony, he only learns that even at the last minutes of Hosteen Tso's life, he was inquiring on how to send a letter to Benjamin. After the ceremony, Leaphorn watches as people gather objects they had left to be blessed as part of the ceremony, Leaphorn sees a name on a flashlight being retrieved by a boy that had the name of the pilot of a helicopter that was stolen in the robbery. He questions the boy and takes the light to give to the FBI.
After the questioning, Leaphorn makes his way back to the trading post and asks Shorty another round of questions. With the text of the letter in his mind, he asks Shorty if the contents of the letter Benjamin was sent matches the letter Shorty was asked to write. After some coaxing, Shorty reveals that the letter Leaphorn read was missing key details, such as that someone named "Jimmy" being crazy and that Hosteen Tso needed help dealing with Jimmy. Leaphorn figures that must mean that Hosteen Tso didn't send the letter Benjamin has, something which, due to the late hour, he decides to follow up with later after he drops off the Flashlight to the FBI.

After dropping off the evidence at the FBI office in Albuquerque, Leaphorn requests to read the file on the robbery. After some coaxing, Leaphorn is granted access to the file where he reads about John Tull, the one robber in the crime that was captured after he was shot by a police officer. John Tull is extremely loyal to a lieutenant in the Buffalo Society named Hoski. Hoski was never captured, but Tull claims Hoski to be his best friend. Leaphorn learns that sometime after the interviews he read, Tull had his bail paid and jumped on his bail, presumably to reunite with the Buffalo Society and Hoski who must have paid from the money from the robbery.
Leaphorn begins reviewing what he has learned and realizes that, based on the information he now has that Margaret Cigarette must have sat in a different spot than was reported, one that meant the killer of Hosteen Tso and Anna Atcitty came from the canyon, not the road like the police originally thought meaning that they never searched the canyon for the murderer and that the murderer or murderers may still be out there and may find that the Tso Hogan was once again occupied and that Theodora and Benjamin may now be in danger.
Leaphorn drives to Tso hogan and finds it empty with food and supplies left behind. A rainstorm, which had occurred while Leaphorn was in Albuquerque, washed any tracks away, but he makes out large dog paw prints inside the hogan and realizes with horror that Gold Rims and his dog must be involved somehow. With a flashlight, his revolver and his portable radio, Leaphorn quickly makes his way into the canyon to search for Benjamin and Theodora.
Leaphorn spends the entire day until pitch dark making his way down the canyon until he hears far off sound of voices. Leaphorn makes his way toward the voices, but his scent causes Gold Rims' dog to find him, forcing Leaphorn to shoot his revolver at the dog before losing it in the struggle. In his desperate attempt to escape being killed by the large dog, he finds himself stuck on top of a shelf of the canyon where the voices find him. In the small group of 3 people that find him, Leaphorn makes out one of them to be John Tull and the other to be Gold Rims, who is referred to as Hoski by the 3rd person. Being up on the shelf with no way for the dog to climb up and no way to prevent themselves from being attacked by Leaphorn possibly dropping rocks onto them, Hoski (Gold Rims) decides to start a fire that would cause the shelf to catch fire due to the assorted dried bushes in the canyon. Leaphorn watches in horror as the 3 men and the dog walk away just as the fire becomes impossible to escape, with them leaving him to burn alive.
Despite the desperate situation, Leaphorn uses a small pool of rainwater that had collected due to the recent storm to keep the flames off of him and finds a small crack in the shelf which, due to the heat and the fire, has created a small draft of fresh air for him to breathe. Leaphorn is able to survive the fire after a huge effort with only minor heat burns.
Afterwards, Leaphorn attempts to call out on his personal radio but finds he can only receive very faint signals and listens to the radio to hear news that 11 boy scouts and 2 adult scout masters from a local camp had been kidnapped since Leaphorn had left into the canyon. The Buffalo Society, which Leaphorn deduces are the three men that he had met, had taken credit for the kidnapping and had issued a recent demand that the police are not to enter or come near the canyon, essentially trapping Leaphorn with no hope of back-up.
Leaphorn attempts to make his way back to his truck to fetch his rifle to kill the men of the Buffalo Society and save the hostages. However, he is stopped when he hears the dog barking and making its way to him. With some quick thinking and some ingenuity, Leaphorn acts as bait in a trap to lead the dog to run after him off a cliff, which proves barely successful as Leaphorn barely is able to save himself from also falling with the dog that is killed in the fall. Due to the dog attack, Hoski is able to locate Leaphorn and gives chase. While running, Leaphorn recalls the draft that the crack in the shelf during the fire and realizes that it must mean that a cavern entrance must be nearby where the fire occurred. With no other options, Leaphorn makes his way back and finds the cavern entrance. Running deep into the dark cavern, Leaphorn believes he may still being pursued by Hoski until he hears the deafening sound of an explosion and finds that Hoski, not willing to follow Leaphorn into the darkness, decided to simply cave in the entrance of the cavern to trap Leaphorn.
Despite the cave in, Leaphorn still feels a draft and determines to follow it to find another exit out of the caverns. He hears some voices in the cave and eventually finds water to drink, realizing it is from Lake Powell and sees the only way out is over open water out into the lake. While investigating if it's safe, Leaphorn sees the unknown man that accompanied Hoski and Tull earlier carry away some boxes from a cache of supplies. When the man is out of sight. Leaphorn investigates and finds food, gasoline, and dynamite but can't find their blasting caps making them worthless to him. He takes some food, and assesses that he cannot escape due to the amount of open water and the echoing that swimming would cause inside the cavern. Leaphorn continues to spy on the 3 members of the Buffalo Society and learns the 3rd man's name is Jackie Noni. He finds they have a radio in this area where they are giving commands and answering questions to the police to confirm that the hostages are still alive.
While looking for any signs of being able to gain an upper hand on the 3 men, Leaphorn encounters Father Benjamin Tso whose arms and legs tied up but had been crawling in the darkness to look for a way to escape. Leaphorn cuts the binds of Benjamin and Benjamin answers some of his question. Benjamin reveals that Hoski is actually his Brother, Jimmy Tso, who was raised among the Navajo while Benjamin had been raised off the reservation. As such, they were never close. Leaphorn realizes that he had vaguely noticed the resemblance when he had seen Benjamin for the first time. Benjamin tells Leaphorn how he was separated from the rest of the hostages who were trapped in a cage and that he was brought into a separate chamber and Theodora is among the other hostages.
Leaphorn investigates the chamber Benjamin was left in and finds it to be home of many sand paintings left by the great grandfather of Hosteen Tso. Hosteen Tso, the eldest son of the eldest son of the eldest son of a legendary Navajo man named "Standing Medicine", was charged to protect these paintings and keep their existence a secret. These ancient sand paintings contained many ceremonies that Standing Medicine feared may be lost as the Navajo lost their land and heritage (this turns out to be true as Leaphorn does not recognize many of the sand paintings). However, Hosteen Tso had told Jimmy of the caves due to him being the eldest son and Jimmy had desecrated the caves and had absent mindedly defaced one of the paintings which Hosteen Tso had found, and Jimmy was forced to kill Hosteen Tso to keep quiet about the secret hide out and killed Anna Atcitty so there wouldn't be any witness.
In the sand painting chamber, Leaphorn finds a spare radio connected to timer which is also connected to a tape recorder. Leaphorn listens to the tape just for a second to know the voice is Jimmy's (Hoski/Gold Rims) but doesn't listen further due to the echoing the sound would cause. He places the tape recorder in his pocket and finally finds that everything is connected to a bag full of dynamite timed to go off sometime in the near future that Leaphorn is unable to determine.
Leaphorn returns to the main chamber to find that Jimmy has left the cave in order to pick up the ransom money and that he had left both Tull and Jackie to keep an eye on the hostages. Leaphorn prepares to attack Jackie and take the shotgun to kill Tull, but finds that he cannot get somewhere close enough to be able to sufficiently surprise Jackie. However, just as Leaphorn resigns to attempting to run a large distance to surprise Jackie where he'd likely be seen and shot, Benjamin comes from the darkness, approaching slowly with arms outstretched and trying to convince Jackie to put down the gun. Jackie, surprised to see Benjamin is freed threatens to shoot him if he doesn't stop approaching him. Benjamin doesn't stop and so Jackie shoots Benjamin, killing him. Leaphorn takes the opportunity to get behind Jackie and kills him with his heavy personal radio by striking him across the temple. With the gun having gone off, Leaphorn quickly takes the shotgun and finds the cell keys and instructs the hostages, including Theodora, who saw the entire exchange, to keep his existence a secret.
Tull makes his way to the hostages but hides in the darkness and Leaphorn cannot make out where he is. Tull examines the scene carefully and asks what happened. One of the scout masters explains that Benjamin and Jackie had fought each other and had apparently killed one another. Tull uses a flashlight, exposing his location to Leaphorn to examine if the story checks out and looks for the shotgun. Leaphorn finds he is too far to make an effective shot with his shotgun but is forced to fire at Tull when Tull aims to begin shooting the hostages in fear they have concealed Jackie's shotgun. Tull escapes into the cave and Leaphorn follows. Leaphorn hears Tull call for help from Jimmy on the radio the group was using to contact the police. Leaphorn finds a blood trail confirming Tull was hit but cannot reach Tull before he escapes into the shadows.
With neither Leaphorn or Tull able to find one another in the darkness and both now hiding and staying still, Leaphorn uses the opportunity to begin trying to convince Tull to give up.
Leaphorn tries to convince Tull that Jimmy abandoned him and that Leaphorn had found a timer connected to dynamite and a recorder. Tull refuses to believe this, and Leaphorn decides that the two of them should listen to the recording.
In the recording, Jimmy claims that police had been spotted in the canyon and that they were following through with their threat. Jimmy claims that the police will find himself, Jackie, Tull along with the 11 children and 3 adult hostages in the cave and gives the coordinates of the entrance but that they would be too late as Jimmy would set off dynamite in mere seconds to kill everyone in the cave. He claims to do this in the name of the murdered Navajo from a tragic event where 3 adults and 11 children were killed, and the tape ends.
Leaphorn surmises that Jimmy had rigged all this to go off once he had gathered the ransom money and made his escape and that Benjamin was placed by the radio to stand in for himself as there was no mention of Benjamin at all on the tape. Leaphorn suspects that Jimmy wished to leave the organization and start a new life. Despite the facts, Tull is unconvinced and tries to explain away the timer bomb as he has a timed bomb to leave with the hostages too and that it was part of the escape plan, however Leaphorn hears doubt in Tull's voice.
Jimmy returns then with a boat due to Leaphorn complicating the escape and tells Tull to begin searching for Leaphorn. Leaphorn tries one last bid to convince Tull to turn on Jimmy saying that Jimmy is just going to turn around and kill Tull because he was not worth this opportunity for a new life for Jimmy. Tull, at his wits end with Leaphorn's assertion, intends to prove Leaphorn wrong by moving the timer forward to the time that he was told to leave the bombs at the hostage's cage, proving that Jimmy didn't rig the dynamite to kill him. However, Jimmy is quick to try to shoot Tull when he sees what Tull is doing because Leaphorn was completely right. However, Jimmy shooting Tull makes no difference as he had already moved the timer forward, causing the timer to go off and blowing up, catching Tull and Jimmy in the explosion.
Leaphorn survives and releases the hostages and transmits what happened to the police and uses the gasoline that the men had to start a signal fire in the lake to show the police where to find them.
As Leaphorn and the hostages wait to be rescued, Theodora asks Leaphorn why Benjamin chose to sacrifice himself the way he did. Leaphorn knows it wasn't that Benjamin sacrificed himself to save the hostages, but really to save himself and his soul. However, Leaphorn remains silent, thinking that if she doesn't understand now she'd never understand why he did it.