In New Zealand's North Island, near the fictional coastal town of Harpoon, the Claire family operates a guest house at the Wai-ata-tapu hot springs. Colonel Claire struggles to turn a profit, and businessman Maurice Questing is eager to call up his loan and seize the resort.
Meanwhile, Colonel Claire's brother-in-law, Dr James Ackrington, writes to Inspector Roderick Alleyn alerting him that Questing may be an enemy agent. Son Simon Claire observes flashing Morse Code signals from Rangi Peak and feels Questing must be a spy for the enemy; soon after an allied ship leaving a New Zealand port is sunk. In addition, the local Maori leaders suspect Questing is a treasure hunter seeking to loot sacred Maori items.
No one much likes Questing: alcoholic handyman, Bert Smith, accuses Questing of trying to murder him by sending him across a railway with a train coming, claiming the crossing signal was green when it was red.
Shakespearean actor Geoffrey Gaunt is advised by his Australian doctor to stay at Wai-ata-tapu to heal his ailing leg. Gaunt arrives and settles in, using the baths. He and his secretary Dikon Bell notice the Claires' daughter, Barbara, always in worn out clothes. Gaunt purchases a fashionable outfit for Barbara from a shop in Auckland, and sends it to her anonymously. She is happy, but cannot guess who sent it.
Questing next tells Smith that the signal was broken, and still later that he looked at the signal through a coloured windscreen. Dikon Bell is a reliable person, trusted by both Simon and his sister Barbara.
A newcomer arrives at the guest house named Septimus Falls, having seen an ad for the place. Falls taps in Morse code leading Simon to suspect Falls is an enemy ally of Questing.
Everyone comes together at a concert put on by the Te Rarawa community in their village hall, in honour of Geoffrey Gaunt, who delivers speeches from select plays, and Questing makes an annoying speech. Some people return to the guest house walking through the area of boiling mud pools and hot springs, while others ride home in a car, taking the road.
Questing does not return and a horrific scream suggests that he has fallen into Taupo-tapu, the huge boiling mud pool. According to Maori legend a dishonoured Te Rarawa girl met this fatal end with a similar, terrible shriek.
Police begin investigating Questing's disappearance by searching the mud pool and interviewing people. Police recover boots and a vest from the boiling pool first.
The group at Wai-ata-tapu each tells how he got home that evening and who they saw. Police interviews make them nervous. Theories as to whether Questing is dead or alive become moot when the police find Questing's skull at the mud pool.
The police find a historic Maori battle adze at the home of Questing that belonged to the local chief Rua's grandfather. Its original location was considered a secret known only to a few select Maori people. Huia, the Claires' housekeeper, admits she overheard her grandfather Rua talking about the adze and told a friend who then told Bert Smith its location. Smith fetched it for Questing. Rua is livid, eventually allowing police to hold it until the case is cleared.
Police find a large hoard of Maori relics alongside the adze, illegal to take or hold. A letter left to Bell from Questing, written before the concert, indicates his plan to leave the country for Australia.
Falls leads a discussion at the guest house where he posits that Questing is colourblind, explaining many lies he told regarding colours because he rarely admitted this physical fact to anyone. He could not distinguish a red from green.
Falls deduces that Smith, the alcoholic handyman, was the only person who fits as the killer of Questing. Smith wore hobnail boots to remove a crucial white trail flag during the concert and tossed them in that mud pool, which boots the police later found. Questing told Smith about his colourblindness to explain the mishap with the traffic signal. Smith lures Questing into the mud pool by removing the white trail flag for the safe path. Questing follows the red flags, which signal danger.
Smith is taken in custody, and known by police to be an enemy agent. Gaunt will head to London. The Claire family is free of the debt to Questing. Dickon Bell decides to try once more to enlist, and asks Barbara, whom he loves, to write to him. Her father gives the gift of clothes back to Gaunt.
Detective Sergeant Webley gains praise from Septimus Falls. Falls reveals himself to the police to be Roderick Alleyn, working undercover for the military during World War II.