While walking in her home village of St Mary Mead, Miss Jane Marple trips and is helped to her feet by Heather Badcock, a woman who lives nearby. Realising the fall has shaken Miss Marple, Heather invites her in for a cup of tea. She chatters excitedly about the famous American film actress Marina Gregg, new owner of nearby Gossington Hall, previously the home of Miss Marple's friend Dolly Bantry. Heather declares herself a 'terrific fan'. She recalls that once, as a teenager working in Bermuda, she had been so excited to have the chance to meet Marina Gregg at a fête and get an autograph that she went despite running a temperature.
Marina and her husband, the film producer Jason Rudd, host a village fête in support of St John Ambulance. Guests include Dolly Bantry and the film man Ardwyck Fenn. Also invited are a number of St John Ambulance officials, including Heather Badcock and her husband Arthur. Margot Bence, a young press photographer, takes pictures.
Heather corners Marina and reminds her of that exciting day many years ago in Bermuda when she had sneaked out of her sickbed specially to get an autograph. Marina is polite, but her gaze wanders over Heather's shoulder. Suddenly, a strange look crosses her face. A short time later, Heather collapses and dies. Later, recounting the events to Miss Marple, Dolly Bantry quotes lines from the poem "The Lady of Shalott" (in which a curse falls upon the poem's heroine) to describe the look she observed.
Local police officer Frank Cornish and Chief Inspector Dermot Craddock of Scotland Yard investigate. They discover that Heather had died of an overdose of a tranquilliser known as 'Calmo' that had been added to her daiquiri. Her husband reports that someone jogged Heather's elbow and she dropped her glass, splashing Marina's frock. Marina was very nice about it and gave her her own drink in replacement, saying that she hadn't touched it yet. Jason had never considered that his wife might have been the intended target, but now discovers that she had been receiving death threats.
Craddock looks into Marina's past. Desperate to have a child, she had adopted three before giving birth to a mentally disabled son and suffering a nervous breakdown. The three children were moved elsewhere, and Marina never saw them again, though they were well provided for. One of those children is the photographer, Margot Bence. While conceding that she hates her adoptive mother, Margot denies attempting to poison anyone.
Ardwyck Fenn tells Craddock he received an anonymous phone call accusing him of killing Heather. He recognized the caller as Jason's secretary, Ella Zielinsky. Shortly afterwards, Ella dies after the atomizer she uses for her hay fever is poisoned with cyanide; and Giuseppe, Marina's butler, is shot after spending the day in London where he deposits £500 into his bank account.
Gladys, one of the servers at the fête, reports seeing Marina deliberately spilling Heather's drink down her own frock. The police try to interview Gladys, but she has just departed for a holiday in Bournemouth. At Gossington Hall, Marina dies from an overdose.
Miss Marple explains how she deduced that Marina was the murderer. Heather had been ill with German measles when she sought Marina's autograph in Bermuda. Marina, in the early stages of pregnancy, had contracted the disease, which led to her son being born disabled. The look on Marina's face was triggered by a Madonna and Child painting on the wall behind Heather. Marina had put Calmo in her own drink, jolted Heather's arm, and then given her the drugged replacement cocktail. To cover her crime, Marina had posed as the target of a murder attempt, writing the threatening notes herself. She killed Ella and Giuseppe after they guessed her involvement and blackmailed her. Miss Marple had sent Gladys away to prevent her becoming Marina's next victim.
Miss Marple implies to Jason that he administered Marina's overdose himself, to prevent her from taking another life. He simply comments on his wife's beauty and the suffering she endured.