In 1946 England, with World War II finally ended, the painter Agatha Troy awaits, after a lengthy wartime separation, the return of her husband Roderick Alleyn, who has been chasing spies in New Zealand as his contribution, while Troy has been making maps and pictorial surveys for the army in London. She accepts a commission to paint the celebrated actor Sir Henry Ancred at his ancestral home Ancreton Manor, where she meets his adult children and grandchildren, and witnesses the tensions and dynamics of a family of theatricals, who act as if on stage among themselves.
The main cause of trouble in the household is Sonia Orrincourt, a brassy young actress Sir Henry has made his mistress and then fiancée. A series of practical jokes are judged by Sir Henry to be the work of his youngest granddaughter, Patricia, known as Panty, an outspoken, mischievous child currently attending a school evacuated to Ancreton during the war, where an outbreak of ringworm has happened. These jokes anger Sir Henry against his family.
Troy finishes the portrait and displays it at Sir Henry's 75th birthday party. That night, Sir Henry dies, apparently of natural causes. His last will creates a furore of accusation among the Ancred family, who later send anonymous notes that he was murdered. Troy returns home to reunite with her husband. They resume being in love, and begin a new phase about her involvement and interest in his work.
Alleyn investigates Sir Henry's death. Troy shares what she observed of the family with Alleyn. Arsenic is assumed as the poison because an old tin of rat poison is found. Sir Henry's nightly glass of milk with a helpful medicine has been thoroughly washed, making investigation more difficult. They disinter the corpse, and learn that the poison that killed him is thallium, the treatment meant in small dose for the children.
The last will signed by Sir Henry gives the estate to his heir, grandson Cedric, but nearly all the cash goes to fiancée Sonia. That leaves Cedric with an expensive estate and no funds to run it. Selected other family members get a few thousand pounds. Granddaughter Panty was no longer a favorite in his last will. Cedric's mother, Millamant, saw that will as unjust and infuriating for her son.
After much talk with upset family members and household staff, Alleyn realizes that there was an opportunity created when two medicine bottles picked up from the chemist were left untended in the flower room, not put in the children's room and Sir Henry's room directly. He realizes also that Sonia's life is threatened at Ancreton Manor. With two plans for protecting her, he still arrives too late and she dies of the same poison. In his talks with family, he learns that Cedric and Sonia played all the practical jokes on Sir Henry.
Alleyn challenges Millamant; she put the thallium in the bottle meant for Sir Henry, tossed his original medicine, and put water in the bottle meant for the children who have ringworm. For Sonia, who adds milk to her tea, Millament repeats the fatal poisoning method.
Alleyn has no witness to any of Millamant's actions, making for a weak case in court. He and Troy discuss this frustrating end to his involvement with Ancredon Manor.