Nine years after reuniting in Paris, Jesse and Céline are now in a relationship and have twin daughters. Jesse reflects on his inability to maintain his relationship with his son Hank, now a teenager. After vacationing with the couple and the girls on the Greek Peloponnese peninsula, Hank flies home to Chicago where he lives with his mother, Jesse's ex-wife.
Jesse is a successful novelist. However, Céline is at a career crossroads. After her NGO's wind farm gets rejected at the last minute, frustrated, she is considering a job with the French government, although it would mean again working for someone she dislikes intensely. As they drive, the couple discusses their 'bad parenting'. Not only do they not stop to see a ruin one of the girls wanted to see, but Jesse sneakily finishes off an apple they had been eating while she sleeps. Discussing Hank, he laments missing his formative years, and Céline confesses he had confided in her about having his first kiss on this vacation. Céline announces that the disagreement over Hank marks the beginning of the end, but Jesse vehemently disagrees.
Later, they reflect on love and life over dinner with the friends who had invited them there. A lot of what they discuss is the inherent difference between the sexes' perspectives. As their friends pay for a hotel room for the couple, Jesse and Céline chat on their walk there. They reflect on their views from when they were young and now. Then, about their initial meetings, and wonder if they would have become a couple if they met as they are now. Jesse reveals his dad just contacted him to join their family in Texas, as his close to centenarian grandmother passed. The ashes of his grandfather who died a year ago will be mixed with hers, as they had been together over seventy years. The two then discuss if they would be able to stay together for over seventy years.
Upon reaching the hotel, one of the receptionists asks them to autograph copies of Jesse's first two books. Finally, as they begin to get intimate, they are interrupted by a phone call from Hank, who seems to have bonded with Céline more than Jesse. Céline blames his ex-wife for taking her anger towards them out on the boy. They eventually have a fierce argument, expressing fears about the strength of their relationship. Jesse wants them to consider moving to Chicago so he can be closer to Hank, which Céline is opposed to unless they can share custody, and thinks will cost her any chance of a career outside her family. During the argument, they accuse each other of having affairs and Céline leaves and returns twice. Then she tells Jesse she thinks she no longer loves him.
Céline leaves their room the third time and sits alone in the hotel's outdoor restaurant. Jesse joins her and pretends that he is a time traveler like he did during their first meeting, bringing her a letter from her 82-year-old self, describing this night as one of the best of their lives. Initially unamused, Céline says their fantasies will never match the imperfect reality. Jesse says while their love may be imperfect, it is real. After a moment, Céline joins in Jesse's role play, and they reconcile.