Near Fjällbacka the corpse of seven-year-old Sara is found in a fisherman's net. The post-mortem shows that this was not a case of accidental drowning, because she only has fresh water in her lungs. She was the daughter of Erica's friend Charlotte, whom she bonded with as they both recently had children. The parents of the dead child live with the maternal grandmother, Lilian, an acerbic hag engaged in a never-ending battle with her 'Neighbour from Hell' Kaj, who has built a new domicile next door to her profound chagrin; Kaj has a reclusive autistic son, Morgan, who spends many hours isolated in his room working on his computer; suspicions begins to point to him as the possible murderer, particularly as he had seen and spoken to the child on the day they died. Patrik would prefer to work on the case with his colleague Martin, but instead the less competent Ernst Lundgren is assigned as his partner. While they're interrogating suspects and witnesses another baby is found with ashes in its mouth, but still alive.
On the personal front Erika and Patrik are raising their baby Maja, with interference from Patrik's mother Kristina. Chief Inspector Mellberg, divorced, tries to bond with his difficult teenage son Simon, who is staying with him for a while.
A secondary storyline starts in Strömstad in 1923. The poor stonecutter Anders gets involved with Agnes, his boss's spoiled daughter. When she gets pregnant her father forces them to marry and expels them to a small house in Fjällbacka. They get twins, but Anders and his two sons are killed when Agnes sets the house on fire. She emigrates to the United States. In the 1950s she returns to Sweden with Mary, a girl she picked up from the streets, who becomes her adopted daughter. Agnes locks her daughter up in the cellar and lets her eat ashes or "Humility". She blames her second husband Åke, but she also starts an affair with a married man. The connection with the recent crime is only revealed towards the end.
The novel also portrays some manifestations of Asperger's syndrome, which is associated with the character of Morgan Wiberg.