South East England freezes under the coldest winter on record, as Mrs Anna Bünz, a German folklore enthusiast who emigrated at the start of the war, drives from her Worcestershire home to the tiny village of Mardian, in search of "The Dance of the Five Sons", a folkloric survival incorporating in uniquely rich profusion all the elements of English Morris, sword dance, guising and mumming. Given short shrift at Mardian Castle by the eccentric 94-year-old chatelaine, Dame Alice Mardian, and her inbred spinster niece Dulcie, Mrs Bünz puts up at the village pub and sets out to study and witness the Winter Solstice ritual. The ritual dance is fiercely protected by old William Andersen, owner and blacksmith at the local forge, who dominates tyrannically his five sons and who traditionally enact the village's mumming ritual. The Christian names of the sons spell D-A-N-C-E: Dan, Andy, Nat, Chris and Ernie.
He repels Mrs Bünz furiously, seeing as an ill omen her attempted female intrusion on an ancient, instinctively understood male tradition. Andersen's granddaughter Camilla, a young actress, is also staying at the pub, hoping to reconnect with the family who rejected her mother Bessie for marrying outside her class and community. Ralph Stayne courts Camilla. He is the local vicar's son and Dame Alice's nephew and heir. Earlier in his life, he had enjoyed a no-bones-broken affair with the pub landlady, a point Camilla must address. Stayne has a key role in the mumming play. Hovering uncomfortably around this class hierarchy is an affably boozy ex-RAF hero, Simon Begg, who runs the local garage and also has a key role in the mumming play.
Tensions rise on Sword Wednesday around the small community, especially at The Forge, where William Andersen's 'simple' son Ernie wants to take over his father's starring role as Fool. Mrs Bünz watched the play. In this performance, the Fool, William Andersen, who is theatrically 'beheaded' by the Five Sons at the end of the Sword Dance, fails to 'rise from the dead' and is found decapitated for real in the snow.
Alleyn and Fox arrive from Scotland Yard to investigate. His investigation draws together the story's fundamental fascination with English folkloric traditions and the changing world that is impinging on Mardian's rigidly class-oriented life, as represented by William Andersen and Dame Alice. An event after Sword Wednesday demonstrates this. Dame Alice invites Alleyn, in a dinner jacket, to a dismally-cooked formal dinner with superb old wines from the cellar in the icy-cold, crumbling Mardian Castle. She gives Alleyn the old family document describing the past mumming ritual, with a clue to who has murdered William Andersen, and why.
Alleyn stages the dance again to reveal how William Andersen was killed and beheaded. Alleyn had noticed that little blood was found where the beheading took place, indicating that the man was already dead before his head was cut off.
Ernie is angry at his father and dresses himself as The Fool, so that his father has to take the costume off his son to don it himself on Sword Wednesday. In the re-enactment, a grandson wears the costume of The Fool, provoking Ernie's anger a second time. Simon Begg is a hero to Ernie, and he steps in to calm Ernie, both times. William, a strong blacksmith, had gone at Simon, who reacted using a self-defense punch learned during the war. That punch killed William. Then Ernie cut off the head of his dead father. Mrs Bünz had aided Begg on Sword Wednesday to move the body. In the re-enactment it took several police officers to restrain Ernie in his anger.
Dame Alice asks Alleyn what sentences a judge and jury will hand down, which Alleyn does not know.
Ralph and Camilla work out their issues, and she accepts his proposal of marriage.