In 1634, investigator Samuel Pipps of the Dutch East India Company is arrested in Batavia. Pipps and his sidekick Arent Hayes are set to be transported back to Amsterdam aboard the Saardam. Other members of the voyage include governor-general Jan Haan (the uncle of Arent Hayes), his wife Sara, his mistress Creesjie, Predikant Sander Kers, and several nobles. Sara plans to leave her abusive husband upon reaching Amsterdam. As they are all boarding the ship, a leper prophesies that the ship will not reach its destination. The leper then bursts into flames.
As a child, Arent and his father went into the woods to hunt. Arent's father disappeared and Arent was found with a strange symbol carved into his skin. Arent started painting the symbol on villager's doors. This inadvertently sparked a moral panic, leading villagers to beat a man named Old Tom to death. Creesjie's late husband, Pieter, was a witch hunter who believed that a demon called Old Tom was behind the symbol. He accused noble families of witchcraft, leading to the downfall of several noble houses and his own personal enrichment. In particular, the de Haviland family was attacked by a mob and their manor was burned down. Four years prior to the story, Pieter's corpse was found with the symbol carved into the wall next to his body.
Predikant Sander Kers is the last member of Pieter's order of witch hunters. Kers believes Old Tom is possessing one of the ship's passengers. Sara eavesdrops on her husband. The conversation implies that he originally summoned Old Tom and killed Arent's father. Arent confronts Haan. Haan admits that he orchestrated Arent's father's death, but claims it was to protect Arent from child abuse.
The ship's animals are slaughtered; passengers begin hearing a voice which offers them their greatest desires in exchange for killing Haan. Sander Kers goes missing; his body is later found stuffed into a hidden compartment. Creesjie finds Haan stabbed to death inside his locked bedchamber, a dagger still in his chest. Sara discovers that a noblewoman named Emily de Haviland has been traveling with them under an assumed name. Chaos erupts on the ship as crew members fight with soldiers; the captain is killed and the ship runs aground onto an island.
Sara and Arent uncover the secret of Haan's death: he was killed by stabbing him with an extremely long blade through a hole in his roof; the dagger in his chest was placed into the wound as a diversion. Creesjie reveals that she is really Emily de Haviland and Pipps is her brother Hugo. They sought revenge against those who caused the downfall of their family, staging a haunting on the ship in order to explain the deaths. Arent, Sara, Creesjie, and Pipps agree to use the Old Tom legend for good. They agree to work together to get revenge against powerful people whose wealth would allow them to evade consequences, blaming their deaths on the demon.