In the picturesque village of Vale-of-Pen-Cuckoo, tensions are running high amongst the seven people who gather to discuss a charity production to raise funds for a new church piano. The local squire, Jocelyn Jerningham, disapproves of his son's, Henry, relationship with Dinah Copeland, the rector's daughter. The Jerninghams are somewhat impoverished nobles and Henry needs to marry a wealthy woman in order to maintain the estate of Pen Cuckoo. Jocelyn's cousin, Eleanor Prentice, is a sexless spinster who is madly in love with Rector Copeland and also disapproves of Henry and Dinah's relationship. Miss Prentice's best friend, Idris Campanula, is also in love with the rector and the two spinsters are sometimes competitors. They both disapprove of newcomer Selia Ross who is apparently having an affair with Dr Templett who has an invalid wife. When Mrs Ross suggests they put on a production of "Shop Windows", everyone is in agreement except the two spinsters who are outnumbered.
Rehearsals do not go well as several actors refuse to take the production seriously and Miss Prentice and Miss Campanula argue over who should play the opening overture. Eventually they decide that Miss Prentice will open the play with 'Venetian Suite' by Ethelbert Nevin. She develops a painful finger and drops out minutes before the production begins on Saturday evening. Miss Campanula sits down at the piano to play Sergei Rachmaninoff's familiar Prelude in C-sharp minor and is promptly shot dead by a Colt 32 that was hidden in the piano.
The one good result of this shocking murder is that this wealthy victim left her wealth to the rector. His daughter Dinah gains as well.
Chief Inspector Roderick Alleyn investigates and quickly learns a mischievous child named Georgie Biggins had, the day before, rigged the piano with his 'Twiddletoy' and water pistol so that water would squirt whenever someone pressed the soft pedal. However, the water pistol was replaced with Jocelyn's revolver sometime on Saturday, the day of the murder. Everyone knew about Jocelyn's revolver and could have sneaked into the rectory hall to rig the piano. A young volunteer tells Alleyn that she played the piano and used the soft pedal not an hour before Miss Campanula was murdered. There must be another aspect to the revolver.
Alleyn wonders if the intended victim was Miss Prentice, asking her if she has enemies. Her reply is indirect. He considers how she backed down from the piano solo minutes before the murder. The two are both disliked. Both use confession to the rector to complain about the other. Each attacks a different couple with threats.
Alleyn concludes the intended victim was always Miss Campanula. The revolver was rigged in such a way that the safety catch could easily be turned on and off, and was on when the young volunteer played. Had the intended victim been Miss Prentice, the murderer could have easily switched the safety off quickly and easily in full view of the audience.
Since the victim was always intended to be Miss Campanula, Alleyn reasons her killer can only be Miss Prentice. Only Miss Prentice knows she might drop out of the piano solo at the last minute. The competition between the two women comes to a head on Saturday evening when Eleanor misinterprets a hug Miss Campanula gave to the rector. This sent her into a tailspin and led her to murder her best friend.
The Jerninghams suggest Miss Prentice may be insane. Alleyn disagrees and thinks she is playing up for leniency.