New York City Police Department Detective Mark McPherson investigates the murder of successful advertising executive Laura Hunt, who was killed by a shotgun blast to the face just inside her apartment doorway. He first interviews worldly newspaper columnist Waldo Lydecker, an imperious, effete older man who explains how he met Laura and became her mentor. She had become his platonic friend and steady companion, and, wanting more from their relationship, she used his fame, influence, and connections to promote her career. As a rising/aspiring advertising company executive.
Mark also questions Laura's parasitic playboy fiancé, Shelby Carpenter, a "kept man" tethered to Laura's wealthy socialite aunt, Ann Treadwell. Ann is in love with Shelby, but tolerates his infatuation with Laura, apparently out of her practical acceptance of Shelby's need for the affection of a woman closer to his age. Bessie Clary, Laura's loyal and highly distraught housekeeper, is also questioned by Mark. Through the testimony of Laura's friends and reading her letters and diary, Mark becomes obsessed with her, so much so that Waldo finally accuses him of falling in love with the dead woman. He also learns that Waldo was jealous of Laura's suitors and used his newspaper column and influence to keep them at bay.
One night, the detective falls asleep in Laura's apartment in front of her portrait. He is awakened by a woman entering with her own key and is shocked to discover that it is Laura. She finds a dress in her closet that belonged to one of her models, Diane Redfern. Mark concludes that the body thought to be Laura was actually Diane's, drawn there for a liaison by Shelby while Laura was away at her country house. With Laura still alive, uncovering the killer becomes even more urgent. By tapping into Laura's phone, Mark follows her to a meeting with Shelby, after which Shelby drives to her country house to grab a shotgun. When confronted, Shelby claims he didn't come forward with the information that Laura was alive because he was panicked. He explains the shotgun by saying he intended to give it to Laura for protection. Mark tests it against the ballistics from Diane's body and finds that it doesn't match.
At a party celebrating Laura's return, Mark arrests her for Diane's murder. After questioning, he becomes convinced she's innocent and does not love Shelby. He searches Waldo's apartment, where he notices a clock identical to the one in Laura's apartment. Upon closer inspection, he discovers it has a secret compartment. Mark then returns to Laura's apartment. Waldo is there and observes a growing bond between Laura and the detective. Waldo insults Mark and is sent away by Laura, but he pauses on the stairwell outside. Mark examines Laura's clock and finds the shotgun that killed Diane, but he leaves it there. Laura is finally confronted with the truth that Waldo is the murderer.
Mark and Laura kiss, then he locks her in her apartment, warning her not to admit anyone. After he leaves, Waldo, who slipped in through the kitchen entrance, retrieves a shotgun and tries to kill Laura, saying that if he can't have her, no one can. She dodges his shot and escapes just as Mark arrives. Mark's sergeant shoots Waldo down. As he dies, Waldo whispers, "Goodbye, Laura. Goodbye, my love."