In Warfield, Connecticut, widowed single mother Stephanie Smothers runs a vlog featuring crafts and recipes for mothers. She becomes friends with Emily Nelson, the mother of her son Miles' best friend and classmate Nicky and a PR director for a fashion company, and they start to meet in the afternoon over martinis.
Emily shares that she is frustrated by the lack of success of her husband, English professor Sean Townsend, and their poor financial situation. Later, Stephanie reveals that after her father died when she was a teenager, she discovered she had a half-brother, Chris, whom she once kissed, though Emily correctly guesses that they had sex.
Stephanie babysits Emily's son while Sean is in London. After two days of Emily not returning calls, she learns from her boss that she is in Miami. Stephanie calls Sean, who contacts the police. Trying to resolve Emily's disappearance, she makes missing person flyers using a photo of Emily that she found hidden on her desk.
Detective Summerville reports that Emily lied about Miami, and that her drowned body was discovered in the lake at a summer camp in Michigan. Stephanie and Sean share their grief and begin a sexual relationship. Summerville reveals to her that Emily had severe liver damage and a large amount of heroin in her system, and that Sean had recently taken out a $4 million life insurance policy on her.
Stephanie receives an insulting message apparently from Emily about her tryst with her half-brother Chris. She has a flashback of her late husband suspecting her infidelity and that Chris was the real father of their son Miles. This likely lead him to cause the car crash that killed both of the men.
Investigating Emily's past, Stephanie visits painter Diana Hyland in Manhattan, who seems to have been a lover of hers and had painted her portrait. She says the painting is actually of her muse Claudia, whom she describes as a con artist who disappeared.
Information from Diana leads Stephanie to a summer camp and its yearbook that shows Emily to be a girl named Hope McLanden, who had triplet sisters Charity (who died in the womb) and Faith. Stephanie visits the twins' mother Margaret, who explains that at 16, Faith and Hope had set fire to the family house, killing their abusive father, and disappeared.
While Stephanie is away on her investigative trips, Emily surprises Sean by reappearing. She has returned for the insurance money and is leaving the country. Stephanie later contrives to meet with Emily, who confirms the story.
The sisters fled separately with a plan to reunite later. Faith did not turn up as agreed, but reappeared 14 years later. An alcoholic and heroin addict, she threatened to turn them both in to the authorities by confessing the patricide unless Emily paid her $1 million. Pretending to agree to the demand, Emily staged her own death by drowning Faith in the lake.
Emily and Stephanie are both angered by Sean's relationship with the other, so Emily convinces Stephanie to frame Sean for Faith's death. He is arrested and released on bail. Stephanie has a change of heart and stages an argument with Sean in front of Emily in order to incriminate her while police-planted microphones are recording the meeting. Stephanie fakes shooting Sean.
Emily, having predicted their ruse and disabled the microphones, confesses her crimes while holding the pair at gunpoint, saying that she will stage their murder-suicide. She shoots Sean in the shoulder and turns the gun on Stephanie, who reveals a hidden camera on her sweater button which is live-streaming the event on her vlog. Emily attempts to escape, then turns around outside the house and points her gun at Stephanie. Darren, a parent of one of the school students, hit Emily with his car, then the police arrive and arrest her.
In the epilogue, it is revealed that Emily has been sentenced to 20 years in prison for the double murder of her father and sister. Sean has become a successful professor at Berkeley, where he currently lives with his son. Stephanie's vlog has garnered one million followers; her knack for solving crimes has made her a part-time private detective who has successfully helped solve thirty cold cases.