Philip Marlowe, a heavy-drinking, laconic private investigator in Los Angeles, is called to the home of the wealthy and elderly General Sternwood. He wants Marlowe to deal with an attempt by a bookseller named Arthur Geiger to blackmail his wild young daughter, Carmen. She had previously been blackmailed by a man named Joe Brody. Sternwood mentions that his other, older daughter Vivian is in a loveless marriage with an Irish bootlegger named Rusty Regan, who has disappeared. On Marlowe's way out, Vivian wonders if he was hired to find Regan, but Marlowe will not say.
Marlowe investigates Geiger's bookstore and meets Agnes, the clerk. He determines that the store is an illegal pornography-lending library. He follows Geiger home, stakes out his house and sees Carmen enter. Later, Marlowe hears a scream, followed by gunshots and two cars speeding away. He rushes in to find Geiger dead and Carmen drugged and naked, in front of a camera with no photographic plate. Marlowe takes her home but when he returns, Geiger's body is gone; he quickly leaves. The next day, the police call Marlowe and let him know the Sternwoods' car was found driven off a pier, with their chauffeur, Owen Taylor, dead inside. It appears that Owen was hit on the head before the car entered the water. The police also ask if Marlowe is looking for Regan.
Marlowe stakes out Geiger's bookstore and sees its inventory being moved to Brody's home. Vivian comes to his office and says Carmen is being blackmailed with the nude photos from the previous night. She also mentions gambling at the casino of Eddie Mars and volunteers that Eddie's wife, Mona, ran off with Rusty. Marlowe revisits Geiger's house and finds Carmen trying to get inside. They look for the photos, but she pretends ignorance of the previous night. Eddie suddenly enters; he says he is Geiger's landlord and is looking for him. Eddie demands to know why Marlowe is there; Marlowe takes no notice and states that he is no threat to him.
Marlowe goes to Brody's home and finds him with Agnes, the bookstore clerk. Marlowe tells Brody that he knows they are taking over the bookstore and blackmailing Carmen with the nude photos. Carmen appears with a gun and demands the photos, but Marlowe takes the weapon and makes her leave. He interrogates Brody further and pieces together the story: Geiger was blackmailing Carmen; Owen Taylor did not like this and killed Geiger, taking the film of Carmen. Brody was staking out Geiger's house during the murder and pursued Owen, knocked him out, stole the film and possibly pushed the car off the pier. Suddenly, the doorbell rings and Brody is shot dead; Marlowe gives chase and catches Geiger's male lover, Carol Lundgren, who shot Brody thinking he had killed Geiger. He had also hidden Geiger's body, so he could remove his own belongings before the police learned of the murder.
The case is seemingly over, but Marlowe is nagged by Rusty's disappearance. The police accept that he simply ran off with Mona, since she is also missing, and since Eddie would not risk committing a murder in which he would be the obvious suspect. Eddie calls Marlowe to his casino and seems to be nonchalant about everything. Vivian is also there, and Marlowe senses something between her and Eddie. Marlowe drives her home and she tries to seduce him, but he rejects her advances. When he gets home, he finds Carmen has crept into his bed, and he rejects her as well.
A man named Harry Jones, Agnes' new partner, approaches Marlowe and offers to tell him Mona's location. Marlowe plans to meet him later, but Eddie's henchman, Lash Canino, is suspicious of Jones and Agnes' intentions and kills Jones first. Marlowe manages to meet Agnes anyway and receives the information. He goes to the location in Rialto, a repair shop with a home at the back, but Canino jumps him and knocks him out. When Marlowe awakens, he is tied up and Mona is there with him. She says she has not seen Rusty in months; she only hid out to help Eddie and insists he did not kill Rusty. She frees Marlowe, and he shoots and kills Canino.
The next day, Marlowe visits Sternwood, who remains curious about Rusty's whereabouts and offers Marlowe an additional $1,000 if he is able to locate him. On the way out, Marlowe returns Carmen's gun to her, and she asks him to teach her how to shoot. They go to an abandoned field, where she tries to kill him, but he has loaded the gun with blanks and merely laughs at her; the shock causes Carmen to have an epileptic seizure. Marlowe brings her back and tells Vivian he has guessed the truth: Carmen came on to Rusty and he spurned her, so she killed him. Eddie, who had been backing Geiger, helped Vivian conceal the killing by helping to dispose of Rusty's body, inventing a story about his wife running off with Rusty, and then blackmailing her himself. Vivian says she did it to keep it all from her father, so he would not despise his own daughters, and promises to have Carmen institutionalized.