Miss Marple takes a two-week holiday in London at Bertram's Hotel, an establishment known for its authentic recreation of the Edwardian era, with the addition of modern conveniences. With her friend Lady Selina Hazy, Miss Marple observes the other guests: the famous adventuress Bess Sedgwick; her daughter, Elvira Blake, whom Bess has not seen since the girl was two years old, saying it's better for Elvira to be separated from her, as she's a dangerous person, not safe to be around; Elvira's legal guardian Colonel Luscombe, who brought Elvira to the hotel not knowing that Bess was also staying there; the clergyman Canon Pennyfather; and the racing car driver Ladislaus Malinowski, who drops into the hotel to leave a message.
Bess Sedgwick recognises the hotel's commissionaire, Michael Gorman. Unknown to either of them, Miss Marple and Elvira overhear their discussion of their shared past in Ballygowlan, Ireland.
Elvira arranges a scheme with her friend Bridget to get money to fly to Ireland for unspecified reasons. She visits the lawyer Richard Egerton, one of her trustees, to find out the size of her inheritance, which is apparently large, and to find out who gets it if she dies.
Canon Pennyfather attempts to travel to Lucerne for a conference, but he leaves on the wrong day and misses the event. Upon his return to Bertram's late at night he finds intruders in his bedroom. Some hours later the Irish Mail train is robbed. Some witnesses of the robbery report having seen Pennyfather on the train.
Days later, the Canon's disappearance is reported to the police. Inspector Campbell and Chief Inspector Davy visit Bertram's to investigate the disappearance as well as the series of robberies, which Davy begins to suspect may have some connection with the hotel. After the Inspector questions everyone at the hotel, Davy meets Miss Marple. She tells him that she saw Canon Pennyfather at the hotel after he had supposedly left for Lucerne. The Canon is then discovered to be alive, having been found unconscious and nursed back to health by some Good Samaritans. However, he has no memory of events after he set out to take his plane to Lucerne.
On Miss Marple's last day at the hotel, Gorman is shot with Malinowski's gun. Elvira Blake says that he was shielding her from gunfire by an unknown assailant.
With Miss Marple's help, Davy discovers the truth about Bertram's Hotel: it is the base of a sophisticated criminal gang that commits large-scale robberies while impersonating distinguished hotel guests. Miss Marple realises that she saw a doppelganger, a younger man who closely resembled Pennyfather, at the hotel that night. This jogs Pennyfather's memory, and he remembers that he saw himself sitting on a chair in his hotel room just before he was knocked unconscious. The gang had expected Canon Pennyfather to be in Lucerne and had sent a double to replace him and take part in the train robbery, to cause confusion with witnesses.
Davy and Miss Marple confront Bess Sedgwick as the orchestrator of the daring robberies, along with the maître d'hôtel Henry, and Ladislaus Malinowski who was involved when fast cars were needed. The hotel staff co-operated with the gang, with the owners handling the money side of the thefts.
Bess and Gorman had been married at one time, and the marriage had never been annulled, making Bess's subsequent marriages void. Bess confesses to her part in the robberies, as well as to the murder of Gorman. She then steals a car and speeds recklessly away, before crashing fatally.
Miss Marple is unconvinced that Bess killed Gorman, believing that she was covering for Elvira Blake. Elvira believed that, as the illegitimate offspring of a bigamist, she would be disinherited, and she killed Gorman to keep him quiet. Davy will not let her get away with the murder.