Alex Cross, a psychologist and police detective, is called to a crime scene where a mother, her daughter and her toddler son were murdered. As Alex and his partner, John Sampson, explore the crime scene, Alex gets a call from his boss, Chief of Detectives Pittman, demanding that Alex and John join a new investigation into two kidnapped children. The children are Maggie-Rose Dunne and Michael Goldberg, both from very wealthy and prominent families, who are under the protection of Secret Service agents. The kidnapper is Gary Soneji, a mastermind criminal, who has been disguising himself and posing as a Math teacher at the private school the children attend.
Mr. Soneji convinces the two children to leave the school with him, under the guise that he is bringing them to Secret Service agents who are waiting to bring them home. He claims this is a precaution due to a threat their parents received earlier that day. Trusting their teacher, and having had this sort of thing happen before, Maggie-Rose and Michael agree to leaving with their him.
Alex and John arrive at the children's school to discover not only fellow officers from the Washington, D.C. police department, but the Secret Service and FBI agents as well. Annoyed that more attention is being devoted to this high-profile case than to the Sanders family murders in the poor neighborhood of Washington Southeast, Alex arrives at the crime scene with the intention of getting out of the investigation. However, the mayor insists Alex take the case.
Alex works closely with the hostage rescue team, which includes Secret Service supervisor Jezzie Flanagan. Within days, the body of Michael is found by a river in Maryland. Not long afterward, the hostage rescue team receives a ransom demand from the kidnapper. The team rushes to Florida to investigate the business where the demand originated from. While there, they receive another demand and decide to follow the instructions in the hopes of saving Maggie.
Alex is chosen by the kidnapper to deliver the ransom at Disney World. As Alex walks through the park, he is approached by a man he suspects is not the kidnapper. Still, the man knows about the ransom demand and is able to convince Alex to leave the park with him. Alex and the man board a private plane and eventually end up at a private airport in South Carolina. As the man leaves the plane with the ransom, Alex frees himself from the armrest he is handcuffed to and chases the man off the plane, only to be hit on the head by an unseen person. By the time Alex's backup arrives, the ransom is gone, and Maggie remains missing.
Alex is blamed by the press for the loss of the ransom, and Alex and John are removed from the case but given promotions. They return their attention to the Sanders family murders. Alex has also begun a relationship with Jezzie, despite his grandmother's warnings. Unable to let go of the kidnapping case, Alex continues to investigate on his own. Eventually, a teacher from the childrens' school is found murdered in the same manner as the Sanders women, and Maggie's shoe is left at the crime scene. Alex and John find a witness who places a Delaware door-to-door salesman in the area.
The hostage rescue team swarms the home of Gary Murphy, a door-to-door salesman, husband and father of one. However, Gary saw them coming and is able to escape. Several days later, Gary walks into a McDonald's in Pennsylvania, kills a man, and takes the other patrons hostage. Alex arrives with John and is able to talk Gary out of the restaurant. Gary is arrested and taken to a Virginia prison where Alex visits him. The suspect claims to have a dissociative identity disorder, and Alex convinces those in charge to allow him to hypnotize Gary in order to determine if he is telling the truth. Under hypnosis, Gary appears to become his alter-ego, Gary Soneji, and lashes out at Alex.
Gary is put on trial for the kidnappings and the murder of Michael. The defense attorney calls Alex to the stand in the hopes of convincing the jury of Gary's split personality; Alex is allowed to hypnotize Gary in the courtroom. Alex does, and Gary appears to remember things Soneji did, including the idea that someone took Maggie from the farm where Soneji hid her. Shortly after, Gary is found guilty of kidnapping and murder. In prison, Gary seemingly becomes Soneji. Alex speaks with Soneji and learns details about the kidnapping, including his continued insistence that Maggie was taken without his knowledge. Soneji insists he was being watched before the kidnappings, including the night he murdered the Sanders family, supporting an eyewitness statement. He suggests these watchers were cops. Shortly after, Soneji escapes prison with the help of a prison guard.
Alex connects Soneji's story of being watched to the Secret Service agents assigned to Michael Goldberg and goes to the FBI with his theory. The FBI confirms Alex's suspicions and believes that Jezzie was involved due to her sexual relationship with one of the agents. Alex is devastated by the news but agrees to help get the proof needed to arrest those involved.
Cross takes Jezzie on a Caribbean getaway and confronts her about her actions. She explains that Devine and Chakely noticed Soneji driving by the Goldberg house and followed him. The ransom was her idea, and they removed Maggie-Rose after Michael died accidentally. Jezzie is arrested based on a recording Sampson made of the conversation, and Maggie-Rose is found with a native Bolivian family near the Andes Mountains, where she had been living for the past two years.
Alex returns home and is attacked by Soneji in the middle of the night. He fights Soneji off and chases him out of the house. In a matter of hours, the police corner Soneji near the White House. As Alex attempts to coax him out, John shoots Soneji, who is then returned to prison. Not long after, Alex attends Jezzie's execution by lethal injection. Soneji writes a last taunting letter to Cross and bribes a guard to leave it on Cross' windshield. Disturbed but unwilling to let Soneji disrupt his life any further, Cross returns home to spend time with his family.