Writer Jacob Finch Bonner considers himself a has-been, having been unable to produce anything fruitful after his reasonably successful debut novel. He has become a professor in a shabby Vermont Master of Fine Arts (MFA) program. An obnoxious student of his, Evan Parker, brags that he has devised a novel that will be a guaranteed commercial success. When Evan reveals the plot to Bonner and shares his preliminary work, Bonner recognizes that the idea is indeed superb. Years later, Bonner has fallen on even harder times, taking on two additional jobs after his salary was reduced when the MFA program went online-only. He wonders why he hasn't heard about Evan's book being published. Searching online, he learns that Evan died of a drug overdose just a few months after they last spoke, presumably leaving the book unfinished.
Three years later, Bonner's novel Crib, based on Evan's outline, has sold over two million copies. While promoting Crib and its upcoming film adaptation, Bonner meets a radio producer, Anna. They begin a romance and eventually marry. Bonner begins receiving emails that threaten to expose him for stealing the story of Crib, and these threats escalate to public social media posts. Bonner must defend himself to his publisher; even though there is nothing illegal about the way Bonner used Evan's plot, Bonner refuses to admit that he did not conceive the story entirely alone. Bonner's team believes him, and he manages to write a third novel that his publisher accepts.
The plot of Crib is revealed gradually through excerpts: When the very bright 15-year-old Samantha becomes pregnant, her religious parents forbid her to have an abortion or put the child up for adoption. Samantha drops out of school to raise her daughter, Maria, and is embittered over her fate. Samantha's parents eventually die, and her disinterested parenting leads Maria to become highly independent. Maria is a lesbian and she dates a girl named Gab. Maria's teacher informs Samantha that Maria will graduate from high school a year early and that she has already earned an academic scholarship to college. Samantha is frustrated that Maria continues to keep it a secret from her. Maria finally only tells her because she needs to ask to borrow Samantha's car to relocate to Ohio State University. During a violent argument, Samantha impulsively kills Maria. She buries Maria near a remote cabin, and she takes Maria's place at Ohio State. When Gab comes looking for Maria, Samantha murders her.
Bonner visits Evan's hometown to learn more. There, he discovers that Evan's story contains many elements of his actual life: his family home, and members of his family-specifically Evan's sister Dianna and her daughter Rose, depicted as Samantha and Maria in Crib. Bonner continues to investigate. He assumes Dianna Parker has been threatening him.
Bonner returns home to Anna. She serves him dinner as he tells her all that has happened and what he has learned. As he becomes groggy and disoriented, Anna reveals that she is Dianna Parker and is the one who has been threatening him. She resented her family all her life, after her parents forced her to keep her child while Evan impregnated multiple women with impunity. She murdered her parents, and then Rose when the girl suddenly announced her departure after a childhood of indifference to Dianna. When Evan, who believed Dianna was dead, sought out Rose so he could sell the family home, he discovered what Dianna had done. She was suspicious when he did not contact police, and she learned he was writing the novel. She murdered him with his own drugs. Then, discovering that Bonner had published his version of the plot, she resolved to marry him and then murder him to reclaim the story. She has already fatally poisoned him in his meal.
Bonner's death is presumed to be suicide due to depression triggered by baseless accusations of plagiarism. Anna promotes his legacy as well as his third novel, and she enjoys the financial proceeds of his work.