Laura "Lo" Blacklock, a 32-year-old travel journalist in London, suffers from alcoholism and insomnia. She is traumatised by a recent burglary in her flat which left her trapped in her bedroom for hours, and her relationship with her boyfriend Judah is on the rocks.
Lo is offered the chance to cover the maiden voyage of the Aurora Borealis, a luxury cruise liner owned by businessman Lord Richard Bullmer. Upon embarking, Lo is assigned to cabin 9; she borrows mascara from her neighbor in cabin 10, a young woman. At dinner that evening, Lo meets Bullmer and his wife Anne, a Norwegian heiress who is ill with cancer. Other passengers include Lo's ex-partner and fellow journalist Ben; food critic Alexander; and photographer Cole, a friend of Bullmer. Notably, the woman in cabin 10 is not present.
At 3 a.m., Lo hears the veranda door of cabin 10 slide open, followed by a splash. Rushing to her balcony, she glimpses what looks like a body disappearing below the waves, as well as a smear of blood on the glass divider between cabins. After head of security Nilsson arrives, Lo discovers that the smear is gone and cabin 10 is untouched. Nilsson tells her that the cabin is empty due to a guest backing out of the trip, suggesting that she is drunk and hallucinating.
The next morning, Lo speaks with the ship's crew, but none of them resemble the missing woman. She returns to her cabin and finds that the mascara tube has disappeared. Frustrated with Nilsson's inaction, Lo asks Ben for help investigating, but later starts to suspect him as her paranoia increases.
While Lo is at the ship's spa, someone writes the words STOP DIGGING on her bathroom mirror. She finds the missing woman in one of Cole's photos, but the camera's SD card is later destroyed by water damage. Lo informs Bullmer of what she has witnessed, and he promises to take action. Later, her phone disappears from her cabin while she is in the shower.
In the middle of the night, Lo hears tapping on her door and is shocked to see the missing woman through the peephole. She chases her into the staff quarters, but is knocked unconscious and imprisoned below deck. Attempting to escape, Lo attacks the woman when she comes to bring food, but relents in exchange for her antidepressant medication.
While cleaning her face, the woman accidentally washes off her made-up eyebrows, and Lo recognises her as Bullmer's wife Anne. She then realises that the woman is actually impersonating Anne; Bullmer smuggled her aboard and into cabin 10, where she was waiting for him when Lo met her on the first day.
The woman, whose name is Carrie, is having an affair with Bullmer; she met him as a waitress at a gentleman's club where Cole did a photoshoot. Lo realises that Bullmer killed Anne the first night of the cruise after dinner, though he told Carrie that it was an accident and convinced her to throw Anne's body overboard. Lo suggests to Carrie that Bullmer is exploiting her, making her impersonate Anne long enough to receive Anne's inheritance.
Lo and Carrie bond over their shared love of the book Winnie-the-Pooh, and Lo convinces Carrie to let her escape while the ship is docked at a Norwegian village. Carrie warns Lo that Bullmer has many contacts in the area. While attempting to evade Bullmer on the ship, Lo falls overboard into the icy water. She seeks help from a nearby hotel and a policeman, but runs away from both, believing they are in contact with Bullmer.
Taking refuge in a barn, Lo is found by a local farmer. She flies back to London and reunites with her boyfriend, suggesting that they move to New York to accept Judah's new job offer. Scotland Yard informs Lo that two bodies have been recovered from the water: Bullmer's body, with a bullet wound, as well as the body of a woman. Lo believes Carrie has drowned, but officials conclude the body belongs to Anne and Bullmer's bullet wound was not self-inflicted. She later receives a mysterious bank transfer with a message referencing Winnie-the-Pooh.