Elspeth McGillicuddy is on her way to visit her friend Jane Marple. As her train passes another running in the same direction, she sees a woman on the other train being strangled by a man. After the police fail to discover any sign of a body, Miss Marple concludes that it must have been thrown from the train into the adjacent grounds of Rutherford Hall. She sends Lucy Eyelesbarrow, a freelance housekeeper, to work there.
Rutherford Hall is the home of an irritable widower named Luther Crackenthorpe. It was originally his father's, who had made his fortune in biscuit manufacturing. On his death, he had left the Hall in trust for his eldest grandson, with Luther allowed to live in the house for his lifetime. The capital from the estate is also held in trust, to be divided on Luther's death equally among Luther's surviving children.
Edmund, Luther's firstborn son, died during World War II. Younger daughter Edith died four years before the novel begins, leaving a son, Alexander, currently on holiday from school. Luther's remaining children are Cedric, a painter (who will inherit the house); Harold, a married businessman; Alfred, whose business is somewhat shady; and Emma, who is unmarried. Others at the Hall include Alexander's father Bryan Eastley and Alexander's schoolfriend James Stoddart-West. Dr Quimper attends to Luther and is close friends with Emma.
Lucy finds a woman's body hidden in a barn on the property. The police, led by Inspector Craddock, identify the victim's clothing as French. Their enquiries lead them to think that the dead woman may have been a dancer calling herself "Anna Stravinska", who had gone missing from a ballet troupe. However, that name is an alias, and the police cannot trace her.
Emma tells the police about two letters: an older one from her brother Edmund, written shortly before his death in France, in which he said he intended to marry a woman named Martine, and a recent one that seems to be from this Martine, wanting to connect with the family. The family concludes that the second letter is probably a scam, since Martine has not been heard from in many years. The police suspect that the body is that of Martine.
Alexander tells Lucy that his father, Bryan, is fond of her, and says he wouldn't mind having her as stepmother. James's mother, Lady Stoddart-West, arrives to reveal that she is in fact Martine. She explains that Edmund died before they could be married, and after she married another man she resolved not to bring up the painful past by telling the Crackenthorpes about their connection. She has chosen to speak up now only because her son told her about the identification of the dead woman as Martine. After Edmund's death, Martine had joined the Resistance and briefly met Bryan Eastley, who was escaping through France. At Rutherford Hall, she recognises him again.
The entire household, apart from Lucy and the absent Bryan and Alexander, becomes ill, and Alfred dies. The curry made by Lucy is found to contain arsenic. After returning home to London, Harold receives a delivery of tablets from Dr Quimper; they are poisoned with aconitine, and he also dies.
Miss Marple and Mrs McGillicuddy arrive for afternoon tea at Rutherford Hall. Mrs McGillicuddy asks to use the lavatory and, while she is out of the room, Miss Marple pretends to choke on a fish bone from a fish-paste sandwich. Dr Quimper moves to assist her. Mrs McGillicuddy re-enters the room and, seeing the doctor backlit against the window with his hands at Miss Marple's throat, cries out, "But that's him - that's the man on the train!"
Miss Marple knew that her friend would recognise the murderer if she saw him again in a similar pose. The dead woman was Quimper's wife who, when she would not agree to a divorce, he killed to be free to marry Emma. Quimper had killed Alfred and Harold, to increase Emma's share of the inheritance. The novel ends with Inspector Craddock wondering about the outcome of the apparent love triangle between Lucy, Cedric, and Bryan. Miss Marple ambiguously states that she knows who Lucy will choose.