Following the funeral of Richard Abernethie, his family assembles at Enderby Hall for the reading of the will by his lawyer, Mr Entwhistle. His wealth is to be divided between his surviving family: his brother Timothy Abernethie and his wife Maud; his sister Cora Lansquenet; his nephew George Crossfield; his first niece Rosamund Shane, and her husband Michael; his second niece Susan Banks, and her husband Gregory; and Helen Abernethie, the wife of his late brother Leo.
Although Richard died of natural causes and his death was expected, Cora makes the seemingly chance but potently disruptive comment that he was murdered. The day after the funeral, she is found dead, having been violently murdered in her sleep. No motive is obvious in Inspector Morton's investigations; while Cora's life income reverts to the Abernethie estate, her property goes to Susan, while her companion Miss Gilchrist, receives a number of her paintings. However, doubts soon arise about Richard's death in the wake of her murder. Seeking help, Entwhistle contacts his friend, Hercule Poirot, to resolve the matter. Poirot contacts an old colleague, Mr Goby, to investigate the family.
Each family member had their own reason for wanting Richard's wealth and are suspects in his murder. On the day of the inquest, Susan visits Cora's home to clean up her possessions for auction. She learns from Miss Gilchrist that her aunt always painted from life and that she also collected paintings from local sales in the hopes of finding a valuable piece. The day after Cora's funeral, art critic Alexander Guthrie arrives to look through Cora's recent purchases as previously scheduled, but finds nothing of value. That evening, Miss Gilchrist is poisoned with a slice of arsenic-laced wedding cake sent in the post; she survives, having only eaten a small portion. Gathering to select items from Richard's estate before its sale, the family are joined by Poirot and Miss Gilchrist. During discussions, Helen comments about believing there was something odd on the day of the funeral, Gilchrist makes a remark about one of the decorations in Enderby, while Susan recalls finding a painting in Cora's possession, which she believed had been copied from a picture postcard and not painted from life, which was Cora's usual style.
Early the next morning, Helen telephones Entwhistle to inform him what she had realised was odd during Richard's funeral, but is struck savagely on the head before she can say more. Helen suffers a concussion and is taken away for her safety. As Inspector Morton prepares to ask each family member about their movements on the day of Cora's murder, Poirot startles everyone by revealing to them that her murderer was Miss Gilchrist. She had recognised a Vermeer amongst Cora's recent purchases that her employer had not, and knew it was her chance to rebuild her beloved tea shop that she lost in the war. She painted over the Vermeer with a scene of a pier from a postcard, unaware it had been destroyed in the war. Afterwards, she put a sedative in Cora's tea so she would be asleep, while Miss Gilchrist posed as her at the funeral. None of the family had seen Cora for more than two decades, which made her deception easier. After leaving the false suggestion that Richard had been murdered, Miss Gilchrist killed Cora the following day so that the police would believe it was connected to Richard's death. To divert suspicion from herself, Miss Gilchrist also faked the attempt on her life.
Miss Gilchrist had to copy Cora's characteristic turn of her head, but failed to realise she did it to the wrong side, as she rehearsed in front of a mirror. Helen was attacked because she eventually realised this. Furthermore, Poirot knew Miss Gilchrist had posed as Cora because she made a reference to a piece of decoration, which could only have been seen within Enderby Hall on the day of Richard's funeral. The Vermeer was hidden by Miss Gilchrist so Guthrie did not find it during his scheduled visit. Her claim that Cora painted the pier scene from life was countered by Susan finding a pre-war postcard of the pier in the cottage, along with Entwhistle recollecting that he smelt oil when he visited Cora's home after her murder. Poirot then reveals that two nuns visited Cora's cottage on the day of the funeral and believed someone was inside.
Once accused, Miss Gilchrist breaks down into a flood of complaints about the hardships of her life but quietly goes with the police. During legal proceedings before her trial, she eventually becomes insane, planning one tea shop after another, though Poirot and Entwhistle have no doubt she was in full possession of her faculties during her crime.