Middle-aged journalist Mikael Blomkvist, who publishes the magazine Millennium in Stockholm, has lost a libel case involving damaging allegations about billionaire Swedish industrialist Hans-Erik Wennerström, and is sentenced to three months in prison. Facing jail time and professional disgrace, Blomkvist steps down from his position on the magazine's board of directors, despite strong objections from Erika Berger, Blomkvist's longtime friend, occasional lover, and business partner. At the same time, he is offered an unlikely freelance assignment by Henrik Vanger, the elderly former CEO of Vanger Enterprises. Blomkvist accepts the assignment, unaware that Vanger commissioned gifted private investigator Lisbeth Salander to comprehensively investigate Blomkvist's personal and professional history.
Blomkvist visits Vanger at his estate on the tiny island of Hedeby, several hours from Stockholm. The old man convinces Blomkvist to do the assignment, by promising not only financial reward but also solid evidence that Wennerström is truly the scoundrel Blomkvist suspects him to be. On this basis, Blomkvist agrees to spend a year writing the Vanger family history as a cover for the real assignment: solving the "cold case" of the disappearance of Vanger's great niece Harriet some 40 years earlier. Vanger expresses his suspicion that Harriet was murdered by a member of the vast Vanger family, many of whom were present in Hedeby on the day of her disappearance. Each year on his birthday Harriet gave Henrik a present of pressed flowers. Since her murder, each year on his birthday, the murderer torments him with a present of pressed flowers, explains Vanger.
Blomkvist begins to analyze the volumes of information that Vanger has obsessively compiled over 40 years about the circumstances of Harriet's disappearance. Hedeby is home to several generations of Vangers, all part-owners in Vanger Enterprises. Under the pretext of researching the family history, and because the island is small, Blomkvist soon becomes acquainted with the members of the extended family who are variously mad, uninterested, concerned, hostile, or aloof.
Blomkvist immerses himself in the case. Eventually Lisbeth Salander is brought in, now to assist him with research by using her skills as a computer hacker. Ultimately the two discover that Harriet's brother Martin, now CEO of Vanger Industries, has been systematically abusing and killing women for years. Moreover, the behavior was indoctrinated in him by his late father Gottfried who sexually abused Martin and Harriet as well. Blomkvist tries to confront Martin, but is captured and taken to a torture chamber hidden in Martin's house. Martin reveals that he is not responsible for Harriet's disappearance. Moments before Martin can kill Blomkvist, Lisbeth bursts in and frees him. Martin escapes but commits suicide by crashing his car into a truck on the highway.
Blomkvist and Lisbeth realize that Harriet was not murdered, but ran away to escape from her sadistic brother. They track her in Australia where she runs a sheep farming company. Confronted, she confirms their account of the case, and reveals that she was responsible for the presumed accidental death of her father. She returns to Sweden where she is happily reunited with Vanger and begins to take a leading role in the newly leaderless family company.
The evidence about Wennerström, which Vanger promised, turns out to be weak, and the promises turn out to have been mostly a lure for Blomkvist. But Lisbeth breaks into Wennerström's computer and discovers that his crimes go beyond what Blomkvist had published. Using this evidence, Blomkvist publishes an article and a book which destroy Wennerström and raise Blomkvist and Millennium to national prominence.