College freshman Claire Danvers is having a rough time at Texas Prairie University. After a humiliating incident in her dorm room, she decides to look for off-campus housing and finds a room in an imposing old house owned by the mysterious and intimidating Mrs. Amelie. Claire's new roommates, Eve Rosser, Shane Collins, and Michael Glass, are all a bit eccentric, but Claire is relieved to have a safe and quiet place to study and escape the drama of college life.
However, things in Morganville aren't as they seem. The town is ruled by a group of vampires, and the humans who live there are forced to follow strict rules to avoid being fed upon. Claire quickly learns that her new roommates are all part of this supernatural world, with Eve and Shane being humans who have been living in Morganville for a while and Michael being a vampire who is trying to resist his nature.
As Claire delves deeper into the world of Morganville, she discovers that the town's deepest secrets are crawling out, hungry for fresh blood. Monica Morrell, a cruel and sadistic resident of the house, is determined to make Claire's life a living hell. Richard Morrell, Monica's older brother and the mayor of Morganville, is struggling to maintain order and protect the town's human population. And then there's Oliver, a powerful and ancient vampire who seems to have a grudge against Michael and a strange fascination with Claire.
Claire is torn between her desire to maintain a normal college life and her need to survive in a town full of dangerous and unpredictable supernatural creatures. She finds herself caught in the middle of a conflict between the vampires and the humans, and as the situation escalates, she realizes that she may be the only one who can save the town from being destroyed.
As she faces off against the town's terror, Claire is forced to confront her own fears and limitations. She must learn to trust her roommates and rely on her own ingenuity if she wants to survive. But even as she fights to protect herself and those she cares about, she can't shake the feeling that there's something dark and dangerous lurking just beneath the surface of Morganville, waiting for the right moment to strike.
Will Michael and Claire be able to face the town's terror and rise to the challenge, or will she drown like everyone else in the depths of Morganville's supernatural secrets Michael reveals that he believes it was the house that kept him alive. He also warns her that there are more dangerous vampires lurking that Brandon therefore she needs to be careful.