Around 1985, Richard Papen leaves his hometown of Plano, California, to study literature at the elite Hampden College in Vermont. Richard finds he cannot enroll in the classes of the sole Classics professor, Julian Morrow, who limits enrollment to a hand-picked coterie: twins Charles and Camilla Macaulay, Francis Abernathy, Henry Winter, and Edmund "Bunny" Corcoran. After Richard helps them with a translation, the other students give him advice on endearing himself to Julian, and Richard is accepted into his classes.
Richard enjoys his new status as a member of the clique, but notices several odd behaviors from the others: they seem to constantly suffer small injuries, boil strange plants on the stove, and attempt to hide bloody clothing. The group is devoted to Julian, who requires his students to only take classes with him and asserts sole control over their academic careers. Though Henry seems to have a strained friendship with Bunny, they spend the winter break together in Rome, while Richard lodges in an unheated warehouse. He nearly dies from hypothermia and pneumonia, but is rescued when Henry returns unexpectedly and brings him to the hospital.
In the new year, tensions between Bunny and the group worsen. Bunny constantly insults the others and begins behaving erratically. Richard learns the truth from Henry: the group, minus Richard and Bunny, held a Dionysian bacchanal with Julian's approval in the woods near Francis's country estate. During the bacchanal, the group killed a Vermont farmer, although the details are left ambiguous. Bunny, who found out by chance, has been blackmailing the group ever since, with Francis and Henry giving him large amounts of money in the hopes of placating him. No longer able to meet Bunny's demands, and fearing that he will expose them as his mental state deteriorates, Henry convinces the group to kill Bunny. The five confront Bunny while hiking, and Henry pushes him into a ravine to his death.
The members of the group struggle to maintain their cover, joining search parties and attending Bunny's funeral. Though the police presence eventually dies down, the group begins to crack under the strain: Francis's hypochondria worsens, Charles descends into alcoholism and abuses Camilla, Richard becomes addicted to pills, and Henry realizes he has no moral objections to murder. Richard learns that Francis has had sexual encounters with Charles; Francis believes the twins have also slept with each other. As Charles becomes even more possessive of his sister, Henry arranges for Camilla to move from their shared apartment to a hotel, further incensing Charles.
Julian receives a letter purporting to be from Bunny, detailing the bacchanal murder and Bunny's fear that Henry is plotting to kill him. Though Julian initially dismisses it as a hoax, he later realizes the truth when he notices a letterhead from Henry and Bunny's hotel in Rome. Instead of addressing the matter, Julian flees campus and never returns, much to Henry's grief and dismay.
Charles' alcoholism and enmity towards Henry worsens as Henry begins living with Camilla. When Charles is arrested for drunk driving in Henry's car, Henry fears Charles will expose the group, while Charles fears that Henry may kill him to keep his silence. Charles barges into Camilla and Henry's hotel room with a gun and tries to kill Henry. In the ensuing altercation, Charles accidentally shoots Richard in the stomach. With bystanders approaching, Henry shoots himself to provide cover for the rest of the group. The police report concludes that, in a suicidal fit, Henry inadvertently shot Richard.
With Henry's death, the group disintegrates. Charles descends further into alcoholism and runs away from rehab with a married woman; Camilla is left alone caring for her ailing grandmother; and Francis, though homosexual, is forced by his wealthy grandfather to marry a woman he despises and attempts suicide. Richard graduates from Hampden as a lonely academic with an unrequited love for Camilla. The novel ends with Richard recounting a dream in which he meets Henry in a desolate futuristic museum. After a brief conversation, Henry leaves Richard to contemplate his unhappiness.