The book is structured as a first-person narrative, with the protagonist June Hayward occasionally directly addressing the reader.
June is an unsuccessful young white author who is the only witness to the death of her former classmate and casual friend, Athena Liu, a Chinese-American author who is an industry darling. On the night of her death, June steals Athena's unpublished manuscript The Last Front from her apartment, a novel about Chinese laborers in World War I. June decides to re-edit it supposedly as a writing exercise, but after feeling greater ownership of it, she submits it as her original work. She is immediately offered a large advance by the publisher Eden Press. Candice Lee, an editorial assistant, insists on hiring a sensitivity reader for the manuscript, but is brushed off. June defends herself to the reader; claiming that what she did was a kind of "collaboration" and that Athena often stole the life experiences of others as material for her work, including a date rape incident June survived while at Yale (for which she considers The Last Front "reparations").
Having positioned herself as a close friend and confidant of Athena to address perceived similarities between The Last Front and Athena's other work, June publishes the book under the Asian-sounding name "Juniper Song" and takes author portraits where she appears racially ambiguous. The book becomes an instant bestseller, but controversy surrounds the novel and June is accused of cultural appropriation on Twitter. While attending publicity events, June sees visions of Athena in the audience.
Before and after the book's publication, June attempts to prevent public revelations of her plagiarism. When Athena's mother Patricia decides to donate Athena's notes to a Yale literary archive, June dissuades her from doing so. An anonymous social media user called @AthenaLiusGhost claims that the book was stolen from Athena and starts an online shaming campaign. June surmises that the @AthenaLiusGhost accounts are being operated by Geoffrey Carlino, Athena's ex-boyfriend. They meet, and Geoff asserts that he and Athena discussed the manuscript of The Last Front while they were dating. When he cannot offer evidence beyond hearsay, June leads him to suggest that she buy his silence while secretly recording him with her phone. Threatening to sue him for defamation, she coerces him into shutting down the accounts, quieting public debate over the plagiarism accusations.
Wanting to continue her literary success, June writes a novella Mother Witch that plagiarises a passage from a poem taken from Athena's apartment. However, the poem had been previously read in a workshop by Athena, and June is again accused of plagiarism. After June convinces Eden Press that it was an accidental mistake, the publisher insists that she rewrite the opening of Mother Witch and focus on her next book. However, public belief that June plagiarised Athena's work persists, with June facing public confrontations and ostracism within the literary world. She receives support primarily from conservative news outlets and commentators after the controversy becomes a talking point regarding free speech and cancel culture.
During work on her next project, June faces writer's block, believing that she can only write about Chinese themes due to her success with The Last Front. June is eventually inspired to write a roman à clef account of her theft of the manuscript, partly to sow doubt over the plagiarism accusations and partly to exorcise "Athena's ghost". After Athena's inactive social media accounts begin posting plagiarism accusations and disturbing Photoshopped images of Athena exclusively to June, June's book soon develops into a horror story, and she is haunted by visions of Athena. June confronts Geoff, but he asserts his innocence.
Convinced that Athena is still alive, June agrees to meet "Athena" at the "Exorcist steps" at the Georgetown campus. After hearing Athena's disembodied voice, June confesses to her theft of The Last Front. "Athena" reveals herself as Candice, who was fired for leaving a negative online review for The Last Front. Having been effectively blacklisted from the publishing industry, Candice sought revenge by orchestrating the social media posts that led to June's confession, which she secretly records with a camera. Candice refuses June's pleas not to release the recording, telling June that she will use it to write an exposé on June. June fights Candice for the camera, but falls in the struggle and is hospitalized.
After being discharged, June learns that Candice has made the confession public and has been given multiple offers to write a memoir. Hoping to sow doubt over Candice's claims, June is inspired to write her own account, planning to frame her theft and plagiarism as a hoax designed to expose the publishing industry for pitting female authors against one another, and depict herself as a victim and Candice as a cyberbully.