Newlywed Gwenda Reed travels from New Zealand ahead of her husband to find a home in England. She finds and buys Hillside, a large old house that she feels a strange connection to. She supervises the renovation, discovering she has very definite ideas of what should be done. When workmen open a long-sealed door, they find the very wallpaper that had been in her mind; and her request for a doorway between two rooms proves to have been such a doorway years earlier. She goes to London to visit relatives: the author Raymond West, his wife, and his aunt, Miss Jane Marple. During a performance of The Duchess of Malfi, at the line "Cover her face; mine eyes dazzle; she died young", Gwenda screams. She sees a man saying those very words strangling a blonde-haired woman whom she thinks of as Helen.
Gwenda had been born in India. After her mother died, she was raised in New Zealand by her mother's sister, and her father died a few years later. She has memories of being on a ship as a young child. Miss Marple suggests that Gwenda had lived in England with her father and his second wife, which proves to be the case. Her stepmother, Helen Halliday (née Kennedy), had met her father travelling from India back to England, and their shipboard romance led to marriage upon arrival in England.
The coincidences prove to be memories from Gwenda's stay in Hillside 18 years ago as a young child. Her husband Giles arrives from New Zealand, and the couple decide to pursue the mystery.
Helen had been raised mainly by her half-brother, Dr Kennedy, now retired from practice. He replies to an advertisement seeking information about Helen. Miss Marple finds the man who once gardened for the Kennedy family, who supplies useful descriptions of events. Miss Marple also finds the cook from the Halliday household, Edith, who remembers that time well. The Hallidays were soon to move to a house in Norfolk before Helen disappeared. It seems that Helen had wanted to get away from someone, and the servants presumed it was her husband.
The Reeds advertise, seeking the Hallidays' former maid Lily. She writes first to Dr Kennedy, seeking his advice. She says that she does not believe that Helen ran off, as the clothes packed in her suitcase made no sense - she took an evening gown but not the shoes and belt that went with it. The Reeds and Dr Kennedy agree he should write back to her to arrange a meeting. Lily never arrives.
The police find Lily's body, strangled, in a copse near the railway station. She had come by an earlier train than expected, even though she had with her Dr Kennedy's letter indicating the correct, later, arrival time. Soon they are digging up the garden at the end of the terrace, where they find Helen's body. While Gwenda is in the house alone, Dr Kennedy approaches and attempts to strangle her. Miss Marple arrives with a container of soapy solution, which she sprays in his eyes.
Miss Marple explains that Dr Kennedy was the person Helen had wanted to get away from; she had dearly loved Halliday and his daughter. Kennedy had strangled his sister, saying the closing words from the play, unaware of young Gwenda watching from the stairs above. Kennedy had previously given Halliday drugs to make him paranoid, then drugged his drink, posing him next to the strangled Helen to convice him that he was the killer. Kennedy then buried Helen in the garden. Since no body was ever found, Halliday's belief that he had killed Helen led him to be diagnosed as insane, and he died in a nursing home.
The letter found with Lily was not the one she received from Kennedy; he had switched it after he killed her. After a full confession from Kennedy, Miss Marple comments that they should have seen it from the start: those words from the play had been spoken by a brother who had just killed his sister.