Lew Archer is called to a facility for disturbed youngsters from rich families to locate Tom Hillman, who has escaped after barely a week. While Archer is there, Tom's father, successful businessman Ralph Hillman, arrives in a rage and is refunded his fee. Archer then drives Hillman back to his home south of Los Angeles and learns on the way that Hillman has received a ransom demand for Tom.
Once home, it is plain that tensions in the Hillman family will make finding what has happened to Tom difficult as both parents are wary about discussing the events that led to their son's committal. Hillman is a self-made man who rose to command in the navy during World War 2 and had only married his frigid wife Elaine for the sake of her money. He seems to relate more closely now to another young man, Dick Leandro, whom he takes along to help crew his yacht. Only Tom's girlfriend, Stella Carson, who lives next door, is prepared to provide any background to help bring him back.
Archer follows a lead to the bar where Tom used to play jazz piano, and then to the leader of the combo that played there. From him Archer learns that as well as Stella, Tom has been seen around with an older blonde and Archer suspects that she may have been used as bait by the kidnap gang. When he locates the woman, however, Archer discovers her apparently beaten to death in a motel and is himself shot at and clubbed by her husband when he tries to catch him. Meanwhile Hillman has paid the ransom but still has not heard from Tom.
From Lieutenant Bastian, who is assigned to the murder case, Archer learns that the husband has escaped in a car with Idaho license plates. From a Hollywood contact, Archer learns that the dead woman was once a 1945 starlet called Carol Brown who came from Idaho and had married a sailor. Her publicity photo had been taken by Harold Harley, then based at the Barcelona Hotel. The hotel is now shut down, but Archer eventually locates Harold in Long Beach. He too is from Idaho, but it is Harold's domineering brother Mike who was Carol's husband.
Bastian and Archer interview Hillman after discovering evidence that Tom may have been co-operating with Mike Harley. Hillman remembers that Harley had served with him in the navy, from which Hillman had Harley discharged for bad conduct, raising the possibility that the kidnap is a spite crime. Harley's trail is traced to Las Vegas, where he has lost all the ransom money gambling. Archer then heads for the Harley farm in Pocatello, Idaho, discovering there that the Harley father had had several stays in mental institutions and used to beat his boys sadistically. Archer also visits the dysfunctional Browns, who had allowed Mike to stay with them for a while. It was their daughter Carol whom Mike had run away with and married, leaving in the company of a crooked ex-policeman named Otto Sipe.
Stella tells Archer that Tom has asked her to meet him at Santa Monica bus station. Archer suspects that Tom has been hiding out at the Barcelona Hotel, where Sipe acts as caretaker. He and the manager of the service station opposite come across Sipe digging a grave for Mike Harley, who has been stabbed with a long knife, but Sipe is shot while trying to escape. Later Elaine Hillman admits that Tom has discovered that he was adopted and that Carol Harley was his real mother. The adoption had been arranged by Dr Weintraub, another of Hillman's former naval colleagues, and the child was really Hillman's.
Archer takes Stella to meet Tom in Santa Monica and they all return home, where Bastian arrives to reveal that Carol had really been stabbed with the same knife that killed Harley and that Hillman had purchased it. Leandro is also identified as having driven to the hotel on the night of Harley's killing. Eventually it emerges that he was driving Mrs Hillman, who had been responsible for murdering both Carol and Mike. Archer refuses to be bribed to keep quiet and she stabs herself with her own knitting needles.