Poirot and Hastings are staying at a Cornish resort, where they are met by Magdala "Nick" Buckley, who lives in her home of End House. After a bullet is shot past her head, which she assumes initially was a wasp, Poirot suspects she is in danger and express his concerns to her. Asked on who would want her dead, Nick reveals she has two cousins - Maggie Buckley, who lives elsewhere; and Charles Vyse, a solicitor who helped remortage her home for funds she desperately needed. Nick's inner circle includes: Ellen, her housekeeper; Mr and Mrs Croft, Australians lodgers living near to End house; George Challenger, who has a soft spot for her; Freddie Rice, her closest friend and an abused wife; and Jim Lazarus, an art dealer who loves Freddie. Poirot finds it unclear who among them wants her dead. Although Nick made a will six months ago, at the suggestion of the Crofts, the only beneficiaries in it, Charles and Freddie, would gain very little from the estate of End House.
Nick is advised by Poirot to have Maggie stay with her for a few weeks. When she arrives, Nick holds a party inviting her inner circle, with the exception of George. During the party, she receives a call while her guest are enjoying themselves. Shortly afterwards, Maggie is found dead, wearing Nick's shawl. George is relieved to find Nick is still alive when he arrives, as everyone assumes Maggie was killed by mistake. A furious Poirot, unable to forgive himself for letting the incident happen on his watch, launches an investigation with Hastings assisting him. To protect Nick, he advises her to tell everyone she is going to hospital, and that she must not eat anything that comes from an unknown source. The next day, Poirot reads a newspaper article reporting the death of renowned pilot Michael Seton, who had gone missing on a flight; a matter he overheard being discussed at the party by the guests.
Suspecting Nick's telephone call was about Michael, he questions her, and she confesses the pair were secretly engaged. She reveals Michael was the sole heir to a vast fortune, which Nick as his fiancée now stands to inherit. Poirot becomes wary about the Crofts motives in Nick's affairs, and asks Inspector James Japp to inquire about them. Michael's love letters to Nick are found by Poirot and Hastings, but Nick's original will is missing; Charles denies receiving it, while Mr Croft contradicts him by claiming he sent it to the solicitor. Poriot suspects one of the men is lying. Nick later receives a box of chocolates laced with cocaine, allegedly sent by Poirot, of which she only eats one piece that doesn't kill her. The gift was delivered by Freddie, who claims when questioned that her friend asked for them. Poriot suspects Freddie is a cocaine addict.
To discover who is trying to kill Nick, he arranges a ruse with her help, by telling the others she died in hospital. Charles reveals will has turned up and holds a will-reading at End House, in which the Crofts inherit her estate as a reward for helping her father in Australia. Poirot then holds a seance to contact Nick's "ghost", which appears, causing the Crofts to reveal themselves. Japp arrives, revealing the pair are forgers. Poirot suspected they stole Nick's will, then gave Charles a forged one after her reported death; but they were not murderers. Freddie later is frightened when someone shoots at her before killing himself; Poirot finds it to be her husband, who was sick and had been begging her for money. Once everything calms down, Poirot reveals that Maggie's murder was not a mistake; she had been killed by Nick who had no proper control over her financial situation.
In his denouement, Poirot reveals that Michael's love letters referenced Nick as two people, leading him to conclude Michael was in love with Maggie, not Nick; both cousins had the same first name. Upon learning of Michael's wealth and disappearance, Nick plotted to usurp his fortune by posing as his fiancée but needed to kill Maggie. The attempts on her life were staged by her, while the cocaine in the chocolates came from George - he supplied both Freddie and Nick with the drug, concealed in wristwatches. Nick is arrested, but takes Freddie's wristwatch; Poirot suspects she will overdose on cocaine to avoid being hanged. George is advised by Poirot to surrender himself or leave, hoping this will allow Freddie to recover. Jim later proposes marriage to Freddie, before revealing to Poirot that Nick failed to notice she owned a painting of considerable value, a fact that would have prevented her needing to commit her crimes.