Five years prior to the events of the book, a murder-suicide occurred in the small town of Little Kilton, Buckinghamshire when popular schoolgirl Andie Bell was brutally murdered. Andie's boyfriend, Sal Singh, while initially only a person of interest, was later believed to be the killer after ostensibly sending a text message confessing to the crime and then taking his own life. Seventeen-year-old Pippa "Pip" Fitz-Amobi, however, is convinced that Sal was innocent and that the real perpetrator is still free. She asks Sal's brother, Ravi, to help her with the investigation she has launched under the guise of an EPQ project. Ravi refuses after their weird first encounter, but later agrees to assist her. Each interrogation Pip carries out puts her in greater danger, yet she persists, even after she begins to receive violent threats in the form of both a written note and a string of text messages, and her dog Barney is stolen and drowned. She finds evidence that Andie was illegally selling drugs to students, including Sal's friend Max Hastings, and was having an affair with Mr. Elliot Ward, a history teacher at Pip's school, and the father of Cara Ward, Pippa's longstanding best friend.
Pippa discovers that Mr. Ward had pushed Andie into a desk in a moment of fury. When Andie went missing, Mr. Ward, believing that he had killed her, murdered and framed Sal while staging it appear to be a suicide. Several days after Andie's death, Mr. Ward noticed a girl, Isla, walking through the street, and, mistaking her for Andie, kidnaps her and locks her in his attic.
Becca, Andie's sister, confesses that Max had drugged and raped her with rohypnol sold to him by Andie. In anger, Becca had pushed Andie, who fell, convulsed and died. While still in shock, Becca had hidden Andie's body in an old septic tank in a farmhouse near Pip's home. Becca also admits that, while the written note that threatened Pip to "stop digging" was written by Mr. Ward, she was responsible for the aggressive anonymous text messages that Pip received afterwards. When Pip attempts to confront Becca for her actions, she is drugged and almost strangled to death by Becca, but is saved by Ravi.
With the truth now public, Sal is posthumously exonerated, and Becca and Mr. Ward are arrested for their roles in the double-homicide.