The Continental Op is called to Personville (known as "Poisonville" to the locals) by the newspaper publisher Donald Willsson. Willsson had mailed the Continental Detective Agency a $5,000 check to retain their services, but Willsson is shot to death in an alley before the Op has a chance to meet with him. The Op meets Donald's wife, who is suspicious of why her husband has employed the Op. Mrs. Willsson leaves and is later seen near her husband's body immediately following his death. The Op begins to investigate Willsson's murder and meets with Willsson's father, Elihu Willsson, a local industrialist who has found his control of the city threatened by several competing gangs. Elihu had originally invited those gangs into Personville to help him impose and then enforce the end of a labor dispute. Elihu is also immediately certain that Mrs. Willsson is responsible for Donald's murder.
In addition to the $5,000 check from the late Donald Willsson, the Op gets another $5,000 certified check from Elihu Willsson to "clean up the city" and rid it of the gangs controlling it. The Op quickly identifies Donald's murderer as young bank teller Robert Albury, a murder that had nothing to do with gang activity or, as Elihu was certain of, Donald's wife. The murder mystery now sewn up, Elihu tries to get his money back and tells the Op to forget about taking down the gangs, but the Op insists he will follow through. While the Op had been investigating, the corrupt police chief Noonan had tried twice to have him gunned down, causing the Op to take a personal interest in the job.
In the meantime, the Op is spending time with Dinah Brand, a possible love interest of the late Donald Willsson and a moll for Max "Whisper" Thaler, a local gangster. The Op extracts information from Brand and Noonan, and increases tension in the city by leaking it to the warring parties. When the Op reveals that a bank robbery was staged by the cops and one of the gangs to discredit another gang, a gang war erupts.
The Op, disturbed by the slaughter he orchestrated, spends an evening of blackout inebriation with Brand, who finds it all amusing. He wakes the next morning to find her stabbed to death with the ice pick he had handled the previous evening. No signs of forced entry are visible, and he can't even be sure he did not do the stabbing himself during his delirium. The Op becomes a suspect sought by the police for Brand's murder, and one of his fellow operatives, Dick Foley, leaves Personville because he is uncertain of the Op's innocence.
The Op, now wanted by the police, entices Reno Starkey, a gang lieutenant, to take on the last strong rival gang led by Pete the Finn. The gangs are whittled down by pipe bombs, arson, gun fights, and corrupt cops gunning down the survivors.
The Op tracks down Starkey, the only gang leader still alive. Starkey is bleeding from four gunshot wounds, having just killed his rival Whisper Thaler. Starkey reveals that he was the one who stabbed Brand, but because she had collided with the semiconscious Op he had looked like the culprit. Starkey later succumbs to his wounds in the hospital.
The corrupt police chief Noonan and the gang leaders are all dead. The Op blackmails Elihu Willsson, having obtained four love letters Elihu had sent to Dinah Brand. The Op gets Elihu to call the governor, who sends in the National Guard, declares martial law, and suspends the entire police force. Elihu Willsson gets back his town, as promised, although not in the way that he had anticipated. The Op returns to San Francisco, where the Old Man (the chief of the Continental Detective Agency's office) criticizes him.