Freelance writer and former investigative journalist Irwin Maurice "Fletch" Fletcher is hired by a billionaire Italian count to investigate the whereabouts of his missing art collection. Fletch soon has a first lead; Boston art dealer Ronald Horan has sold two of the paintings. In Rome, Fletch meets Angela, the attractive daughter of his client, and a love affair develops between the two. Angela then receives news from the police that her father has apparently been kidnapped by organized criminals who are demanding a Picasso from the missing collection as ransom.
As Fletch arrives in a short-term rented townhouse in Boston, he finds a dead woman, subsequently identified as barista Laurel Goodwin. Despite reporting the crime to the police, Fletch becomes the prime suspect in the murder. Sergeant Inspector Monroe and Junior Detective Griz of the Boston Police Department begin tailing him, which he thwarts numerous times to continue his investigation without interference.
Fletch meets Horan under a false identity in an attempt to buy the stolen Picasso. He learns from his neighbor Eve that Owen, the townhouse owner, has a history of violence and drug abuse and an estranged spouse named Tatiana, who used to be his business partner. Fletch meets with Tatiana, again using a false identity, and adds her to his growing suspect list.
Meanwhile, the Countess, Angela's stepmother, invites herself to stay with Fletch. Fletch gains entry to Horan's yacht at a country club and retrieves several paintings, including the Picasso. Angela arrives in Boston, suspecting that the Countess kidnapped the Count, but initially maintains a friendly facade.
At dinner that night, Fletch, the Countess, and Angela are visited by Owen, Tatiana, and Eve. Laurel's boyfriend arrives inebriated with the intention to avenge Laurel by killing Fletch, but he is overpowered and consoled in his grief. Angela, who has been exposed as a friend of Owen, abruptly leaves. Fletch follows her to Horan's house then to his yacht, where he confronts her, assuming that she stole the paintings and used Owen to smuggle them to Horan for sale. However, Horan reveals that he killed Laurel and framed Fletch to thwart his investigation. He then planned to deceive Angela and pay his debts by selling the Count's art collection. Horan attempts to kill Fletch but is shot dead by Griz.
The Count, who had faked his kidnapping with the help of Fletch in order to test his wife and daughter's love, arrives and persuades Fletch to keep the paintings. From an undisclosed location in Central America, Fletch sends paintings to the Countess, Eve, his previous boss, and two street artists, and a large check to Laurel's boyfriend and her family.